Date,Heading,Link to detail,Detail News
2023-09-26,Banks and Finance Companies Report Impressive Profits Till Shrawan of 2080/81 While Few Companies Face Losses,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/banks-and-finance-companies-report-impressive-profits-till-shrawan-of-208081-while-few-companies-face-losses-2023-09-26,"Nepal Rastra Bank has unveiled recent statistics covering the net profit of commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies for up to Sharwan of the current fiscal year 2080/81. Commercial banks collectively raked in a substantial net profit of Rs. 8.52 Arba, with Global IME Bank leading the pack at Rs. 99.23 crores in net profit. Not far behind, Nabil Bank boasted a healthy Rs. 75.55 crore, while Nepal Investment Mega Bank secured Rs. 74.79 crores. However, Nepal SBI Bank found itself at the lower end with a net profit of Rs. 16.05 crores. Turning to development banks, the industry posted a commendable net profit of Rs. 96.24 crores, despite three out of the 17 banks reporting losses. Garima Bikas Bank stole the spotlight with an impressive Rs. 24.95 crore in net profit, closely followed by Muktinath Bikas Bank at Rs. 16.8 crore. On the flip side, Green Development Bank and Salapa had the lowest profits at Rs. 53.6 Lakhs and Rs. 39.4 Lakhs, respectively, while Narayani, Karnali, and Miteri Development Bank grappled with net losses during the period. In the realm of finance companies, the picture was largely positive, with 15 out of 17 companies posting profits. Capital Merchant Banking & Finance claimed the top spot with a robust Rs. 46.24 crores in net profit, while Pokhara Finance and ICFC Finance secured the second and third positions with Rs. 11.59 crores and Rs. 7.17 crores, respectively. Nevertheless, Nepal Finance and Samriddhi Finance Company faced challenges, reporting net losses of Rs. 7.73 crores and Rs. 95 lakhs, respectively.  Nepal Rastra Bank has unveiled recent statistics covering the net profit of commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies for up to Sharwan of the current fiscal year 2080/81. Commercial banks collectively raked in a substantial net profit of Rs. 8.52 Arba, with Global IME Bank leading the pack at Rs. 99.23 crores in net profit. Not far behind, Nabil Bank boasted a healthy Rs. 75.55 crore, while Nepal Investment Mega Bank secured Rs. 74.79 crores. However, Nepal SBI Bank found itself at the lower end with a net profit of Rs. 16.05 crores. Turning to development banks, the industry posted a commendable net profit of Rs. 96.24 crores, despite three out of the 17 banks reporting losses. Garima Bikas Bank stole the spotlight with an impressive Rs. 24.95 crore in net profit, closely followed by Muktinath Bikas Bank at Rs. 16.8 crore. On the flip side, Green Development Bank and Salapa had the lowest profits at Rs. 53.6 Lakhs and Rs. 39.4 Lakhs, respectively, while Narayani, Karnali, and Miteri Development Bank grappled with net losses during the period. In the realm of finance companies, the picture was largely positive, with 15 out of 17 companies posting profits. Capital Merchant Banking & Finance claimed the top spot with a robust Rs. 46.24 crores in net profit, while Pokhara Finance and ICFC Finance secured the second and third positions with Rs. 11.59 crores and Rs. 7.17 crores, respectively. Nevertheless, Nepal Finance and Samriddhi Finance Company faced challenges, reporting net losses of Rs. 7.73 crores and Rs. 95 lakhs, respectively.  Nepal Rastra Bank has unveiled recent statistics covering the net profit of commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies for up to Sharwan of the current fiscal year 2080/81. Commercial banks collectively raked in a substantial net profit of Rs. 8.52 Arba, with Global IME Bank leading the pack at Rs. 99.23 crores in net profit. Not far behind, Nabil Bank boasted a healthy Rs. 75.55 crore, while Nepal Investment Mega Bank secured Rs. 74.79 crores. However, Nepal SBI Bank found itself at the lower end with a net profit of Rs. 16.05 crores. Turning to development banks, the industry posted a commendable net profit of Rs. 96.24 crores, despite three out of the 17 banks reporting losses. Garima Bikas Bank stole the spotlight with an impressive Rs. 24.95 crore in net profit, closely followed by Muktinath Bikas Bank at Rs. 16.8 crore. On the flip side, Green Development Bank and Salapa had the lowest profits at Rs. 53.6 Lakhs and Rs. 39.4 Lakhs, respectively, while Narayani, Karnali, and Miteri Development Bank grappled with net losses during the period. In the realm of finance companies, the picture was largely positive, with 15 out of 17 companies posting profits. Capital Merchant Banking & Finance claimed the top spot with a robust Rs. 46.24 crores in net profit, while Pokhara Finance and ICFC Finance secured the second and third positions with Rs. 11.59 crores and Rs. 7.17 crores, respectively. Nevertheless, Nepal Finance and Samriddhi Finance Company faced challenges, reporting net losses of Rs. 7.73 crores and Rs. 95 lakhs, respectively.  "
2023-09-18,Nabil Bank inaugurates Namche Branch in Solukhumbhu; providing banking coverage with 265 branches across the nation,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inaugurates-namche-branch-in-solukhumbhu-providing-banking-coverage-with-265-branches-across-the-nation-2023-09-18,"Nabil Bank, a leading banking institution, has inaugurated its 265th branch located at Namche, Solukhumbhu. Nabil has inaugurated the branch as its strategy to expand branches in remote areas to expand banking reach. Upendra Poudyal, Chairman of Nabil Bank jointly with Chief Guest Tshering Phenjo Sherpa, Ex-ward office Chairman at Solukhumbhu inaugurated the branch with the presence of esteemed guests, prominent personalities, and other government officials. Speaking at the inaugural ceremony, Chairman Poudyal said, “Nabil Bank believes in working with community and it is our gleeful moment to open the branch at Namche.” Further, he stated that Nabil at Namche is not just for the business but it is to working in and for the community. Chief Guest Sherpa expressed his gratitude towards the bank for marking its presence. He mentioned about the important role of the bank for financial reach and economic growth in the society. Welcoming the guests and speaking during the inaugural ceremony, Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank, said that the expansion of the branch is to deliver quality banking service of the region to make access to finance easily. “We will give our best to provide the best service to our valued customers here for meeting the financial need of the region,” he further added. Ward member Nwang Sherpa, boarder administration officer Sujan Kumari Bardewa, and Police Inspector Kabin Rai were present during the inauguration ceremony in the program along with other guests from the community and Nabil Bank. Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal. The bank has 265 branch networks with 306 ATM machine services along with above 1.8 million customer base across the country.   Nabil Bank, a leading banking institution, has inaugurated its 265th branch located at Namche, Solukhumbhu. Nabil has inaugurated the branch as its strategy to expand branches in remote areas to expand banking reach. Upendra Poudyal, Chairman of Nabil Bank jointly with Chief Guest Tshering Phenjo Sherpa, Ex-ward office Chairman at Solukhumbhu inaugurated the branch with the presence of esteemed guests, prominent personalities, and other government officials. Speaking at the inaugural ceremony, Chairman Poudyal said, “Nabil Bank believes in working with community and it is our gleeful moment to open the branch at Namche.” Further, he stated that Nabil at Namche is not just for the business but it is to working in and for the community. Chief Guest Sherpa expressed his gratitude towards the bank for marking its presence. He mentioned about the important role of the bank for financial reach and economic growth in the society. Welcoming the guests and speaking during the inaugural ceremony, Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank, said that the expansion of the branch is to deliver quality banking service of the region to make access to finance easily. “We will give our best to provide the best service to our valued customers here for meeting the financial need of the region,” he further added. Ward member Nwang Sherpa, boarder administration officer Sujan Kumari Bardewa, and Police Inspector Kabin Rai were present during the inauguration ceremony in the program along with other guests from the community and Nabil Bank. Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal. The bank has 265 branch networks with 306 ATM machine services along with above 1.8 million customer base across the country.   Nabil Bank, a leading banking institution, has inaugurated its 265th branch located at Namche, Solukhumbhu. Nabil has inaugurated the branch as its strategy to expand branches in remote areas to expand banking reach. Upendra Poudyal, Chairman of Nabil Bank jointly with Chief Guest Tshering Phenjo Sherpa, Ex-ward office Chairman at Solukhumbhu inaugurated the branch with the presence of esteemed guests, prominent personalities, and other government officials. Speaking at the inaugural ceremony, Chairman Poudyal said, “Nabil Bank believes in working with community and it is our gleeful moment to open the branch at Namche.” Further, he stated that Nabil at Namche is not just for the business but it is to working in and for the community. Chief Guest Sherpa expressed his gratitude towards the bank for marking its presence. He mentioned about the important role of the bank for financial reach and economic growth in the society. Welcoming the guests and speaking during the inaugural ceremony, Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank, said that the expansion of the branch is to deliver quality banking service of the region to make access to finance easily. “We will give our best to provide the best service to our valued customers here for meeting the financial need of the region,” he further added. Ward member Nwang Sherpa, boarder administration officer Sujan Kumari Bardewa, and Police Inspector Kabin Rai were present during the inauguration ceremony in the program along with other guests from the community and Nabil Bank. Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal. The bank has 265 branch networks with 306 ATM machine services along with above 1.8 million customer base across the country.   "
2023-09-18,"Commercial Banks in Ashwin Unveil Interest Rate Adjustments, PCBL Tops FD Rates, SCB Cuts Amidst Stability",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-in-ashwin-unveil-interest-rate-adjustments-pcbl-tops-fd-rates-scb-cuts-amidst-stability-2023-09-18,"Commercial banks have recently announced their updated interest rate profiles for the month of Ashwin, set to take effect from Ashwin 01 i.e. from today. Most commercial banks are offering an annual interest rate of approximately 5% for depositors who maintain savings accounts during Ashwin. Meanwhile, individual customers have the opportunity to earn a maximum interest rate of 11.36% per annum on fixed deposits (FDs), whereas institutions can secure an interest rate of 9.36% per annum on their fixed deposits. It is worth noting that, SCB has chosen to reduce its rates, offering the lowest rates among all 20 commercial banks, with a 5.29% interest rate for institutional FDs and a 7.79% interest rate for individual FDs. In contrast, the standard savings rate at SCB remains at 5.9%. In a comparative analysis, Nepal SBI Bank has set its institutional FD rate at 6.2%, while the individual FD rate stands at 8.2%. Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) boasts the highest FD rates among all commercial banks, offering an institutional FD rate of 9.36% and an individual FD rate of 11.36%. However, PCBL's regular savings account provides a yield of 6.36%- 8.36% which is again higher than that of any other commercial bank. Furthermore, Everest Bank Limited and Himalayan Bank Limited have slightly elevated interest rates for their institutional and individual FDs, with rates of 9.05% and 11.05%, respectively. Concurrently, both banks maintain general savings rates at 6.05%.  Similarly, in simpler terms, Nepal Rastra Bank mandates that banks cannot change their savings and fixed deposit interest rates by more than 10% compared to the rates they published in the previous month. Meanwhile, it's essential to maintain a relatively small interest rate gap, with no more than a 5% difference between the minimum interest rate for regular savings accounts and individual fixed deposits (FDs). Similarly, when dealing with institutional FDs and individual FDs, there should be a maximum interest rate difference of 2% to ensure fairness. However, there is a provision for remittance savings and term deposits, allowing banks to offer an additional 1% interest rate over personal savings and term deposits. Furthermore, it's important to note that there are limits to the interest rates that can be offered on call accounts; banks are prohibited from offering interest rates exceeding 50% of the minimum savings interest rate.  *Note: Remittance Savings Interest Rate isn't included in the table   Commercial banks have recently announced their updated interest rate profiles for the month of Ashwin, set to take effect from Ashwin 01 i.e. from today. Most commercial banks are offering an annual interest rate of approximately 5% for depositors who maintain savings accounts during Ashwin. Meanwhile, individual customers have the opportunity to earn a maximum interest rate of 11.36% per annum on fixed deposits (FDs), whereas institutions can secure an interest rate of 9.36% per annum on their fixed deposits. It is worth noting that, SCB has chosen to reduce its rates, offering the lowest rates among all 20 commercial banks, with a 5.29% interest rate for institutional FDs and a 7.79% interest rate for individual FDs. In contrast, the standard savings rate at SCB remains at 5.9%. In a comparative analysis, Nepal SBI Bank has set its institutional FD rate at 6.2%, while the individual FD rate stands at 8.2%. Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) boasts the highest FD rates among all commercial banks, offering an institutional FD rate of 9.36% and an individual FD rate of 11.36%. However, PCBL's regular savings account provides a yield of 6.36%- 8.36% which is again higher than that of any other commercial bank. Furthermore, Everest Bank Limited and Himalayan Bank Limited have slightly elevated interest rates for their institutional and individual FDs, with rates of 9.05% and 11.05%, respectively. Concurrently, both banks maintain general savings rates at 6.05%.  Similarly, in simpler terms, Nepal Rastra Bank mandates that banks cannot change their savings and fixed deposit interest rates by more than 10% compared to the rates they published in the previous month. Meanwhile, it's essential to maintain a relatively small interest rate gap, with no more than a 5% difference between the minimum interest rate for regular savings accounts and individual fixed deposits (FDs). Similarly, when dealing with institutional FDs and individual FDs, there should be a maximum interest rate difference of 2% to ensure fairness. However, there is a provision for remittance savings and term deposits, allowing banks to offer an additional 1% interest rate over personal savings and term deposits. Furthermore, it's important to note that there are limits to the interest rates that can be offered on call accounts; banks are prohibited from offering interest rates exceeding 50% of the minimum savings interest rate.  *Note: Remittance Savings Interest Rate isn't included in the table   Commercial banks have recently announced their updated interest rate profiles for the month of Ashwin, set to take effect from Ashwin 01 i.e. from today. Most commercial banks are offering an annual interest rate of approximately 5% for depositors who maintain savings accounts during Ashwin. Meanwhile, individual customers have the opportunity to earn a maximum interest rate of 11.36% per annum on fixed deposits (FDs), whereas institutions can secure an interest rate of 9.36% per annum on their fixed deposits. It is worth noting that, SCB has chosen to reduce its rates, offering the lowest rates among all 20 commercial banks, with a 5.29% interest rate for institutional FDs and a 7.79% interest rate for individual FDs. In contrast, the standard savings rate at SCB remains at 5.9%. In a comparative analysis, Nepal SBI Bank has set its institutional FD rate at 6.2%, while the individual FD rate stands at 8.2%. Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) boasts the highest FD rates among all commercial banks, offering an institutional FD rate of 9.36% and an individual FD rate of 11.36%. However, PCBL's regular savings account provides a yield of 6.36%- 8.36% which is again higher than that of any other commercial bank. Furthermore, Everest Bank Limited and Himalayan Bank Limited have slightly elevated interest rates for their institutional and individual FDs, with rates of 9.05% and 11.05%, respectively. Concurrently, both banks maintain general savings rates at 6.05%.  Similarly, in simpler terms, Nepal Rastra Bank mandates that banks cannot change their savings and fixed deposit interest rates by more than 10% compared to the rates they published in the previous month. Meanwhile, it's essential to maintain a relatively small interest rate gap, with no more than a 5% difference between the minimum interest rate for regular savings accounts and individual fixed deposits (FDs). Similarly, when dealing with institutional FDs and individual FDs, there should be a maximum interest rate difference of 2% to ensure fairness. However, there is a provision for remittance savings and term deposits, allowing banks to offer an additional 1% interest rate over personal savings and term deposits. Furthermore, it's important to note that there are limits to the interest rates that can be offered on call accounts; banks are prohibited from offering interest rates exceeding 50% of the minimum savings interest rate.  *Note: Remittance Savings Interest Rate isn't included in the table   "
2023-09-12,Nabil Bank partners with Sipradi Autoparts to facilitate special loans to small sellers of Tata auto parts and lube oil,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-partners-with-sipradi-autoparts-to-facilitate-special-loans-to-small-sellers-of-tata-auto-parts-and-lube-oil-2023-09-12,"Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Sipradi Autoparts so as to provide easy credit services to the small sellers of Tata Autoparts and Tata lubricants. The MoU was signed between Senior MD of Sipradi Autoparts Mr. Yuvraj Budhathoki and SME and Microfinance head of the bank Mr. Amit Shrestha amid a program, as per the media statement. Under this agreement, the bank will provide collateral-free loan services to the retail sellers of Tata auto parts and lube oil, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Sipradi Autoparts so as to provide easy credit services to the small sellers of Tata Autoparts and Tata lubricants. The MoU was signed between Senior MD of Sipradi Autoparts Mr. Yuvraj Budhathoki and SME and Microfinance head of the bank Mr. Amit Shrestha amid a program, as per the media statement. Under this agreement, the bank will provide collateral-free loan services to the retail sellers of Tata auto parts and lube oil, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Sipradi Autoparts so as to provide easy credit services to the small sellers of Tata Autoparts and Tata lubricants. The MoU was signed between Senior MD of Sipradi Autoparts Mr. Yuvraj Budhathoki and SME and Microfinance head of the bank Mr. Amit Shrestha amid a program, as per the media statement. Under this agreement, the bank will provide collateral-free loan services to the retail sellers of Tata auto parts and lube oil, as per the media statement. "
2023-09-11,Commercial Banks; Too Pricey on your Pockets? See Latest PE Ratio of 'A' Class Banks,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-too-pricey-on-your-pockets-see-latest-pe-ratio-of-a-class-banks-2023-09-11,"As the stock market experiences continuous declines, the share prices of commercial banks have followed suit, reaching their lowest point since the start of dividend distribution. However, certain banks offering robust dividend prospects remain attractive to investors. In the current financial landscape, the stock market has been characterized by persistent volatility, impacting the valuation of commercial banks. Despite the NEPSE Index maintaining stability on a year-to-year basis, the Banking Index has exhibited a noteworthy decline of 5%, or 65.60 points. A year ago, the Banking Index stood at 1310.91 points, but it has since retreated to 1245.31 points.  Dividend Potential: Reviewing the financial statements from the previous fiscal year, it is evident that commercial banks, on average, have the capacity to distribute dividends exceeding 11%. However, it's important to note that, according to the raw financial data, two commercial banks find themselves unable to distribute dividends. In stark contrast, Everest Bank stands out as a top performer in this regard, boasting the capability to disburse an impressive 40% dividend. Further analysis, based on the fourth quarterly report of FY 2079/80, reveals that eight banks have a distributable profit per share exceeding 10 rupees, thereby enabling them to distribute dividends exceeding 10%. In the wake of mergers within the banking sector during the previous fiscal year, certain banks now hold significant reserves, allowing them to issue dividend to investors. Note: The dividend potential may vary after the audit so it's not the final data. In addition, the banks hold sole discretion to payout dividends or not. Dividend Leaders: Delving into specifics, Everest Bank emerges as the leader in dividend distribution potential, with the capacity to distribute a substantial 40.50% dividend from earnings in the last fiscal year. Meanwhile, NIC Asia Bank, despite not distributing dividends for the past two years, demonstrates the potential to disburse an impressive 31.99% in dividends. Standard Chartered Bank also remains an attractive prospect with the ability to offer a 28.99% dividend, and Sanima Bank follows closely behind with the capacity to distribute a 17.73% dividend. PE Ratios: The Price-to-Earnings (PE) ratio is a crucial indicator, reflecting the perceived risk associated with a company's share price. In the context of commercial banks, Kumari Bank and Nabil Bank lead the pack with PE ratios of 20 times. NIC Asia and Everest Bank follow closely with a PE ratio of 19 times, while Laxmi Sunrise Bank boasts a 17 times ratio.   In conclusion, the turbulent stock market has had a notable impact on commercial banks' share prices. However, investors seeking dividend income can find solace in banks with strong dividend potential, with Everest Bank, NIC Asia Bank, Standard Chartered Bank, and Sanima Bank emerging as promising options. Additionally, PE ratios serve as a useful metric to gauge the risk associated with investing in these banks. *Note that the LTP is taken as of September 10, 2023  All the data are generated from SSpro Software. To learn more about the software, click on the link below SSpro (Disclaimer: The information provided above is not intended for trading purposes. Before making any decisions, it is strongly advised that you conduct your own research and make informed choices.) As the stock market experiences continuous declines, the share prices of commercial banks have followed suit, reaching their lowest point since the start of dividend distribution. However, certain banks offering robust dividend prospects remain attractive to investors. In the current financial landscape, the stock market has been characterized by persistent volatility, impacting the valuation of commercial banks. Despite the NEPSE Index maintaining stability on a year-to-year basis, the Banking Index has exhibited a noteworthy decline of 5%, or 65.60 points. A year ago, the Banking Index stood at 1310.91 points, but it has since retreated to 1245.31 points.  Dividend Potential: Reviewing the financial statements from the previous fiscal year, it is evident that commercial banks, on average, have the capacity to distribute dividends exceeding 11%. However, it's important to note that, according to the raw financial data, two commercial banks find themselves unable to distribute dividends. In stark contrast, Everest Bank stands out as a top performer in this regard, boasting the capability to disburse an impressive 40% dividend. Further analysis, based on the fourth quarterly report of FY 2079/80, reveals that eight banks have a distributable profit per share exceeding 10 rupees, thereby enabling them to distribute dividends exceeding 10%. In the wake of mergers within the banking sector during the previous fiscal year, certain banks now hold significant reserves, allowing them to issue dividend to investors. Note: The dividend potential may vary after the audit so it's not the final data. In addition, the banks hold sole discretion to payout dividends or not. Dividend Leaders: Delving into specifics, Everest Bank emerges as the leader in dividend distribution potential, with the capacity to distribute a substantial 40.50% dividend from earnings in the last fiscal year. Meanwhile, NIC Asia Bank, despite not distributing dividends for the past two years, demonstrates the potential to disburse an impressive 31.99% in dividends. Standard Chartered Bank also remains an attractive prospect with the ability to offer a 28.99% dividend, and Sanima Bank follows closely behind with the capacity to distribute a 17.73% dividend. PE Ratios: The Price-to-Earnings (PE) ratio is a crucial indicator, reflecting the perceived risk associated with a company's share price. In the context of commercial banks, Kumari Bank and Nabil Bank lead the pack with PE ratios of 20 times. NIC Asia and Everest Bank follow closely with a PE ratio of 19 times, while Laxmi Sunrise Bank boasts a 17 times ratio.   In conclusion, the turbulent stock market has had a notable impact on commercial banks' share prices. However, investors seeking dividend income can find solace in banks with strong dividend potential, with Everest Bank, NIC Asia Bank, Standard Chartered Bank, and Sanima Bank emerging as promising options. Additionally, PE ratios serve as a useful metric to gauge the risk associated with investing in these banks. *Note that the LTP is taken as of September 10, 2023  All the data are generated from SSpro Software. To learn more about the software, click on the link below SSpro (Disclaimer: The information provided above is not intended for trading purposes. Before making any decisions, it is strongly advised that you conduct your own research and make informed choices.) As the stock market experiences continuous declines, the share prices of commercial banks have followed suit, reaching their lowest point since the start of dividend distribution. However, certain banks offering robust dividend prospects remain attractive to investors. In the current financial landscape, the stock market has been characterized by persistent volatility, impacting the valuation of commercial banks. Despite the NEPSE Index maintaining stability on a year-to-year basis, the Banking Index has exhibited a noteworthy decline of 5%, or 65.60 points. A year ago, the Banking Index stood at 1310.91 points, but it has since retreated to 1245.31 points.  Dividend Potential: Reviewing the financial statements from the previous fiscal year, it is evident that commercial banks, on average, have the capacity to distribute dividends exceeding 11%. However, it's important to note that, according to the raw financial data, two commercial banks find themselves unable to distribute dividends. In stark contrast, Everest Bank stands out as a top performer in this regard, boasting the capability to disburse an impressive 40% dividend. Further analysis, based on the fourth quarterly report of FY 2079/80, reveals that eight banks have a distributable profit per share exceeding 10 rupees, thereby enabling them to distribute dividends exceeding 10%. In the wake of mergers within the banking sector during the previous fiscal year, certain banks now hold significant reserves, allowing them to issue dividend to investors. Note: The dividend potential may vary after the audit so it's not the final data. In addition, the banks hold sole discretion to payout dividends or not. Dividend Leaders: Delving into specifics, Everest Bank emerges as the leader in dividend distribution potential, with the capacity to distribute a substantial 40.50% dividend from earnings in the last fiscal year. Meanwhile, NIC Asia Bank, despite not distributing dividends for the past two years, demonstrates the potential to disburse an impressive 31.99% in dividends. Standard Chartered Bank also remains an attractive prospect with the ability to offer a 28.99% dividend, and Sanima Bank follows closely behind with the capacity to distribute a 17.73% dividend. PE Ratios: The Price-to-Earnings (PE) ratio is a crucial indicator, reflecting the perceived risk associated with a company's share price. In the context of commercial banks, Kumari Bank and Nabil Bank lead the pack with PE ratios of 20 times. NIC Asia and Everest Bank follow closely with a PE ratio of 19 times, while Laxmi Sunrise Bank boasts a 17 times ratio.   In conclusion, the turbulent stock market has had a notable impact on commercial banks' share prices. However, investors seeking dividend income can find solace in banks with strong dividend potential, with Everest Bank, NIC Asia Bank, Standard Chartered Bank, and Sanima Bank emerging as promising options. Additionally, PE ratios serve as a useful metric to gauge the risk associated with investing in these banks. *Note that the LTP is taken as of September 10, 2023  All the data are generated from SSpro Software. To learn more about the software, click on the link below SSpro (Disclaimer: The information provided above is not intended for trading purposes. Before making any decisions, it is strongly advised that you conduct your own research and make informed choices.) "
2023-09-04,Nabil Bank introduces Special Teej Offer for female customers; offer to remain valid only till Ashoj 15,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-introduces-special-teej-offer-for-female-customers-offer-to-remain-valid-only-till-ashoj-15-2023-09-04,"Targeting to approaching Teej festival – one of the auspicious festivals of Nepalese women- Nabil Bank has launched Special Teej Offer for their women customers. Under this scheme, by opening a new account under “Nabil Premium Nari Bachat Khata”, women customers will enjoy free subscriptions of debit card, credit card, mobile banking and a waiver of annual locker charge for the first year. Introduced for a limited time period, women customers can enjoy the above-mentioned facilities only if they open Nabil Premium Nari Bachat Khata till Ashoj 15, 2080. Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal. The bank has 265 branch networks with 298 ATM machine services along with an above 1.8 million customer base across the country. Targeting to approaching Teej festival – one of the auspicious festivals of Nepalese women- Nabil Bank has launched Special Teej Offer for their women customers. Under this scheme, by opening a new account under “Nabil Premium Nari Bachat Khata”, women customers will enjoy free subscriptions of debit card, credit card, mobile banking and a waiver of annual locker charge for the first year. Introduced for a limited time period, women customers can enjoy the above-mentioned facilities only if they open Nabil Premium Nari Bachat Khata till Ashoj 15, 2080. Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal. The bank has 265 branch networks with 298 ATM machine services along with an above 1.8 million customer base across the country. Targeting to approaching Teej festival – one of the auspicious festivals of Nepalese women- Nabil Bank has launched Special Teej Offer for their women customers. Under this scheme, by opening a new account under “Nabil Premium Nari Bachat Khata”, women customers will enjoy free subscriptions of debit card, credit card, mobile banking and a waiver of annual locker charge for the first year. Introduced for a limited time period, women customers can enjoy the above-mentioned facilities only if they open Nabil Premium Nari Bachat Khata till Ashoj 15, 2080. Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal. The bank has 265 branch networks with 298 ATM machine services along with an above 1.8 million customer base across the country. "
2023-09-01,Nabil Bank bags Ambitions and Development Asian award during TUX Asia 2023 held at Cambodia,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-bags-ambitions-and-development-asian-award-during-tux-asia-2023-held-at-cambodia-2023-09-01,"Nabil Bank has bagged ‘Ambitions and Development: For consistent growth and introduction of new services in the country’ award during TUX Asia 2023 held at Siem Reap, Cambodia. Compass Plus Technologies rewarded Nabil Bank for its consistent and continuous upgrade in new technologies for better banking experience. Sergey Putenikhin, Vice President, Eastern Joint Regional Directorate Managing Director of Compass Plus presented the award to Ganesh Prasad Awasthi, Chief Operating Officer, Nabil Bank during the program held on August 18, 2023. The program was witnessed by international delegates participated from different countries like India, Bangladesh, Cambodia, Malaysia and others. “It is our honor to get this prestigious international award for our innovative digital banking services that we have introduced in Nepal,” said Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer, Nabil Bank. Stating that this award has motivated the bank, he further said, “We have introduced many international digital banking services in new emerging market like Nepal. This recognition surely encourages us to further work on to making customers’ experience seamless in digital banking.” Nabil Bank, being the first private sector bank, introduced the computerized banking system for the first time in Nepal. As a mission of being one of the most innovative commercial bank of Nepal, Nabil in its 39 years of journey introduced many innovative and new technologies. Nabil was the first bank to launch the NFC Dual Interface Contactless cards, contact less enabled POS terminals, implemented the first 3DS ACS 2.x compliant payment gateway to facilitate e-commerce transactions in the country. Similarly, the bank introduced Cash Recycler Machine for the first time in Nepal. Moreover, the bank also introduced the innovation technology program like Green PIN and cardless cash withdrawal, added card features (Debit/Credit/Prepaid) in mobile banking application and implemented virtual card and card load facility through its mobile banking application for the first time in Nepal.   Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal. The bank has 265 branch networks with 298 ATM services along with 1.8 million plus customers across the country. Nabil Bank has bagged ‘Ambitions and Development: For consistent growth and introduction of new services in the country’ award during TUX Asia 2023 held at Siem Reap, Cambodia. Compass Plus Technologies rewarded Nabil Bank for its consistent and continuous upgrade in new technologies for better banking experience. Sergey Putenikhin, Vice President, Eastern Joint Regional Directorate Managing Director of Compass Plus presented the award to Ganesh Prasad Awasthi, Chief Operating Officer, Nabil Bank during the program held on August 18, 2023. The program was witnessed by international delegates participated from different countries like India, Bangladesh, Cambodia, Malaysia and others. “It is our honor to get this prestigious international award for our innovative digital banking services that we have introduced in Nepal,” said Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer, Nabil Bank. Stating that this award has motivated the bank, he further said, “We have introduced many international digital banking services in new emerging market like Nepal. This recognition surely encourages us to further work on to making customers’ experience seamless in digital banking.” Nabil Bank, being the first private sector bank, introduced the computerized banking system for the first time in Nepal. As a mission of being one of the most innovative commercial bank of Nepal, Nabil in its 39 years of journey introduced many innovative and new technologies. Nabil was the first bank to launch the NFC Dual Interface Contactless cards, contact less enabled POS terminals, implemented the first 3DS ACS 2.x compliant payment gateway to facilitate e-commerce transactions in the country. Similarly, the bank introduced Cash Recycler Machine for the first time in Nepal. Moreover, the bank also introduced the innovation technology program like Green PIN and cardless cash withdrawal, added card features (Debit/Credit/Prepaid) in mobile banking application and implemented virtual card and card load facility through its mobile banking application for the first time in Nepal.   Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal. The bank has 265 branch networks with 298 ATM services along with 1.8 million plus customers across the country. Nabil Bank has bagged ‘Ambitions and Development: For consistent growth and introduction of new services in the country’ award during TUX Asia 2023 held at Siem Reap, Cambodia. Compass Plus Technologies rewarded Nabil Bank for its consistent and continuous upgrade in new technologies for better banking experience. Sergey Putenikhin, Vice President, Eastern Joint Regional Directorate Managing Director of Compass Plus presented the award to Ganesh Prasad Awasthi, Chief Operating Officer, Nabil Bank during the program held on August 18, 2023. The program was witnessed by international delegates participated from different countries like India, Bangladesh, Cambodia, Malaysia and others. “It is our honor to get this prestigious international award for our innovative digital banking services that we have introduced in Nepal,” said Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer, Nabil Bank. Stating that this award has motivated the bank, he further said, “We have introduced many international digital banking services in new emerging market like Nepal. This recognition surely encourages us to further work on to making customers’ experience seamless in digital banking.” Nabil Bank, being the first private sector bank, introduced the computerized banking system for the first time in Nepal. As a mission of being one of the most innovative commercial bank of Nepal, Nabil in its 39 years of journey introduced many innovative and new technologies. Nabil was the first bank to launch the NFC Dual Interface Contactless cards, contact less enabled POS terminals, implemented the first 3DS ACS 2.x compliant payment gateway to facilitate e-commerce transactions in the country. Similarly, the bank introduced Cash Recycler Machine for the first time in Nepal. Moreover, the bank also introduced the innovation technology program like Green PIN and cardless cash withdrawal, added card features (Debit/Credit/Prepaid) in mobile banking application and implemented virtual card and card load facility through its mobile banking application for the first time in Nepal.   Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal. The bank has 265 branch networks with 298 ATM services along with 1.8 million plus customers across the country. "
2023-08-28,Nabil Bank receives Sales Excellence Award 2023 for its exceptional business growth even after acquiring new banks,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-receives-sales-excellence-award-2023-for-its-exceptional-business-growth-even-after-acquiring-new-banks-2023-08-28,"Nabil Bank has received the Sales Excellence Award 2023 Award from Growth Leadership Academy. Chairman of Nepal Bankers Association Mr. Sunil K.C. has handed over the award to the Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Manoj Gyawali for the exceptional growth in business volume during the previous fiscal year despite its merger with other institutions, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 265 branches, 298 ATM outlets, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has received the Sales Excellence Award 2023 Award from Growth Leadership Academy. Chairman of Nepal Bankers Association Mr. Sunil K.C. has handed over the award to the Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Manoj Gyawali for the exceptional growth in business volume during the previous fiscal year despite its merger with other institutions, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 265 branches, 298 ATM outlets, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has received the Sales Excellence Award 2023 Award from Growth Leadership Academy. Chairman of Nepal Bankers Association Mr. Sunil K.C. has handed over the award to the Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Manoj Gyawali for the exceptional growth in business volume during the previous fiscal year despite its merger with other institutions, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 265 branches, 298 ATM outlets, as per the media statement. "
2023-08-14,Nabil Bank introduces Nabil Dhukka Ghar Karja at fixed interest rate as low as 10.99%; loan to be available for upto 70% of value of property,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-introduces-nabil-dhukka-ghar-karja-at-fixed-interest-rate-as-low-as-1099-loan-to-be-available-for-upto-70-of-value-of-property-2023-08-14,"With an aim to fulfill the dream of owning house, Nabil Bank has introduced ""Nabil Dhukka Ghar Karja, Nabil Bhaye Dhukka”. Under this scheme, Nabil Bank extends housing loans at stable, affordable and unmatchable interest rates for a loan tenure of 20 years to make the housing loan affordable. In this scheme, Nabil provides two competitive fixed interest rate alternatives - 10.99% for 7 years and 11.99% for 10 years. “When it comes to housing loan, homeowners seem to be skeptical about the premium rate that they need to pay each month due to ever changing rates,” said Chadani Shrestha, Personal Lending Unit Head of Nabil Bank. “Keeping this in mind, we have introduced ‘Nabil Dhukka Ghar Karja’ in which homeowners can feel assured during their loan tenure for affordable fixed rates,” she added. According to the bank, Nabil Dhukka Ghar Karja facilitates up to 70% financing for the first-time homebuyers, while others can take advantage of up to 60% financing with hassle-free loan process. The scheme also complemented by the added advantage of free issuance of credit card up to Rs. 200,000. To avail this home loan, one can approach the nearest branch of Nabil Bank across the country. Nabil Bank is one of the leading banks of Nepal. The bank has 265 branch networks with 298 ATM machine services along with above 18 million customer base across the country. With an aim to fulfill the dream of owning house, Nabil Bank has introduced ""Nabil Dhukka Ghar Karja, Nabil Bhaye Dhukka”. Under this scheme, Nabil Bank extends housing loans at stable, affordable and unmatchable interest rates for a loan tenure of 20 years to make the housing loan affordable. In this scheme, Nabil provides two competitive fixed interest rate alternatives - 10.99% for 7 years and 11.99% for 10 years. “When it comes to housing loan, homeowners seem to be skeptical about the premium rate that they need to pay each month due to ever changing rates,” said Chadani Shrestha, Personal Lending Unit Head of Nabil Bank. “Keeping this in mind, we have introduced ‘Nabil Dhukka Ghar Karja’ in which homeowners can feel assured during their loan tenure for affordable fixed rates,” she added. According to the bank, Nabil Dhukka Ghar Karja facilitates up to 70% financing for the first-time homebuyers, while others can take advantage of up to 60% financing with hassle-free loan process. The scheme also complemented by the added advantage of free issuance of credit card up to Rs. 200,000. To avail this home loan, one can approach the nearest branch of Nabil Bank across the country. Nabil Bank is one of the leading banks of Nepal. The bank has 265 branch networks with 298 ATM machine services along with above 18 million customer base across the country. With an aim to fulfill the dream of owning house, Nabil Bank has introduced ""Nabil Dhukka Ghar Karja, Nabil Bhaye Dhukka”. Under this scheme, Nabil Bank extends housing loans at stable, affordable and unmatchable interest rates for a loan tenure of 20 years to make the housing loan affordable. In this scheme, Nabil provides two competitive fixed interest rate alternatives - 10.99% for 7 years and 11.99% for 10 years. “When it comes to housing loan, homeowners seem to be skeptical about the premium rate that they need to pay each month due to ever changing rates,” said Chadani Shrestha, Personal Lending Unit Head of Nabil Bank. “Keeping this in mind, we have introduced ‘Nabil Dhukka Ghar Karja’ in which homeowners can feel assured during their loan tenure for affordable fixed rates,” she added. According to the bank, Nabil Dhukka Ghar Karja facilitates up to 70% financing for the first-time homebuyers, while others can take advantage of up to 60% financing with hassle-free loan process. The scheme also complemented by the added advantage of free issuance of credit card up to Rs. 200,000. To avail this home loan, one can approach the nearest branch of Nabil Bank across the country. Nabil Bank is one of the leading banks of Nepal. The bank has 265 branch networks with 298 ATM machine services along with above 18 million customer base across the country. "
2023-08-08,Comparative Analysis: Unraveling Financial Indicators Among Commercial Banks,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/comparative-analysis-unraveling-financial-indicators-among-commercial-banks-2023-08-08,"The fourth-quarter reports for the ongoing fiscal year 2079/80 have been unveiled by all 20 commercial banks, offering a comprehensive view of their financial performance, in line with the mandatory financial provision to make public the fourth-quarter report by Shrawan 21, 2080. Setting aside speculative notions, this article centers its attention on the evaluation of commercial banks' profitability and business volume indicators for the Q4 period of the fiscal year 2079/80. Through meticulous comparative analysis, we aim to shed light on the nuances of these crucial metrics. Without further delay, let's immerse ourselves in a quantitative exploration of the data. Note: Out of the previous 22 commercial banks in Nepal,  Himalayan Bank and Civil Bank signed MoU where Civil Bank got acquired by Himalayan Bank. Whereas, Laxmi Bank and Sunrise Bank completed their merger, forming Laxmi Sunrise, on 29th Ashadh 2080. As per the net profit of the fourth quarter of FY 2079/80, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs. 7.53 Arba with a growth of 51.51% as compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) also reported a net profit of Rs. 7.25 Arba with a growth of 39.16%, hence it stands in the second position to accumulate higher profits for the fourth quarter. In the third position, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) has a net profit of Rs 4.92 Arba. Also,  Standard Chartered Bank Limited (SCB) reported the highest growth in net profit by 55.51% in this quarter.  On the other hand, Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) reported a net profit of Rs. 2.26 Arba which has dropped by 38.59%.  *Note that Out of 20 commercial banks, the net profit of the newly merged banks - NIMB and LSBL is not compared with the fourth quarter of the relevant quarter.    Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 35.77 Arba capital,  Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) with Rs. 34.13 Arba, and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with Rs. 27.06 Arba paid-up capital.    Note: ADBL Capital includes Rs 5.43 Arba irredeemable non-cumulative preference shares. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 3.07 Kharba where the industry average of Rs 15.36 Arba.  In terms of reserves and surplus, Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 38.40 Arba, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained the second position with Rs 31.03 Arba reserve and surplus fund and Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 24.04 Arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 2.50 Kharba as a deposit. Only 9 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the fourth quarter of FY 2079/80,  Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 4.26 Kharba, and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 3.96 Kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Nepal Investment Mega Bank (NIMB) with a collected deposit of Rs 3.54 Kharba respectively. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 1.17 Kharba.   The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 3.56 Kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 3.32 Kharba.  Similarly, on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 77.86 Arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 2.06 Kharba. 9 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 2.06 Kharba.   Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with an income of Rs 17.98 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 17.12 Arba.   Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 34.11 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses.  Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 5.47 Arba followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with a total of Rs. 3.89 Arba. In the same vein, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the lowest of impairment charge for a loan and other losses of Rs. 39 Crores.   NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 40.22 per share. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 37.39 per share. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 31.72 per share. Conversely, Kumari Bank Limited (ADBL) stays at the bottom with an Earning of Rs. 7.46 per share. The average EPS of 20 commercial banks stands at Rs 21. Only 9 commercial banks provide EPS higher than that of the industry average.   Everest Bank Limited (EBL) and NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) have unveiled their distributable profit per share to be over Rs. 30. For the former, it is Rs. 40.05 which is the highest among all commercial banks, while for the latter it stands at Rs. 32. Conversely, only two commercial banks, Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) and Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL), have reported negative distributable profits per share of Rs. -3.23 and Rs. -3.28, respectively.  The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 345.58 which belongs to Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL). NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is in the second position with Rs 256.41. Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q4 of FY 2079/80 i.e. Rs 248.94. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has the least net worth of Rs 140.47 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 191.01 per share. 7 companies have a net worth more than the industry average.   Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  has the least PE ratio of 9.17 times. It is followed by Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) with a PE ratio of 10.72 times.  (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios but rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio) *Note that Out of 20 commercial banks, the PE ratio of RBBL and LSBL isn't available as RBBL is not a listed company and LSBL is a newly merged company that is yet to be listed in NEPSE.   In terms of the Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 17.12%. This is followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with a CAR of 15.05%. CAR is the ratio of a bank’s capital in relation to its risk-weighted assets and current liabilities.   In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported the lowest NPL of 0.79% in terms of asset quality.  Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has reported the highest NPL of 4.77%, followed by Himalayan  Bank Limited (HBL) with an NPL of 4.57%   Cost of Funds: The term cost of funds refers to how much banks and financial institutions spend in order to acquire money to lend to their customers. The lower the cost of funds, the better because it ultimately reduces the cost of banks. As per reports, Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) has the highest Cost of Funds at 8.67%, whereas Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has the lowest cost of funds at 6.11%. CD Ratio: The CD ratio refers to the credit-deposit ratio in banking parlance. It tells how much of the money banks have raised in the form of deposits has been deployed as loans. Likewise, Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) has reported the highest CD ratio of 88.72%, whereas Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the lowest CD ratio of 74.84%. Base Rate and Interest Spread: Base rate is defined as the minimum interest rate set by the NRB below which Commercial banks are not permitted to lend to their customers. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) reports the highest base rate of 10.90%, and Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has the lowest base rate of 7.79%. Similarly, the net interest rate spread is the difference between the interest rate a bank pays to depositors and the interest rate it receives from loans to consumers. Here, NABIL and NIMB have the highest interest spread of 4.99% each, whereas Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the lowest interest spread of 3.94% for the fourth quarter of FY 2079/80. Aside from that, commercial banks were to stick to a 4% spread rate till the end of fiscal year (FY) 2079–80, under NRB guidelines. However, the spread rate has only been held steady at 4% by 12 banks, though. The companies who went for merger and acquisition has a provision to maintain extra 1% spread i.e. upto 5%.   Finally, the table below shows provides a full picture of the major indicators of 20 commercial banks as of the fourth quarter of FY 2079-2080.  The fourth-quarter reports for the ongoing fiscal year 2079/80 have been unveiled by all 20 commercial banks, offering a comprehensive view of their financial performance, in line with the mandatory financial provision to make public the fourth-quarter report by Shrawan 21, 2080. Setting aside speculative notions, this article centers its attention on the evaluation of commercial banks' profitability and business volume indicators for the Q4 period of the fiscal year 2079/80. Through meticulous comparative analysis, we aim to shed light on the nuances of these crucial metrics. Without further delay, let's immerse ourselves in a quantitative exploration of the data. Note: Out of the previous 22 commercial banks in Nepal,  Himalayan Bank and Civil Bank signed MoU where Civil Bank got acquired by Himalayan Bank. Whereas, Laxmi Bank and Sunrise Bank completed their merger, forming Laxmi Sunrise, on 29th Ashadh 2080. As per the net profit of the fourth quarter of FY 2079/80, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs. 7.53 Arba with a growth of 51.51% as compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) also reported a net profit of Rs. 7.25 Arba with a growth of 39.16%, hence it stands in the second position to accumulate higher profits for the fourth quarter. In the third position, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) has a net profit of Rs 4.92 Arba. Also,  Standard Chartered Bank Limited (SCB) reported the highest growth in net profit by 55.51% in this quarter.  On the other hand, Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) reported a net profit of Rs. 2.26 Arba which has dropped by 38.59%.  *Note that Out of 20 commercial banks, the net profit of the newly merged banks - NIMB and LSBL is not compared with the fourth quarter of the relevant quarter.    Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 35.77 Arba capital,  Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) with Rs. 34.13 Arba, and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with Rs. 27.06 Arba paid-up capital.    Note: ADBL Capital includes Rs 5.43 Arba irredeemable non-cumulative preference shares. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 3.07 Kharba where the industry average of Rs 15.36 Arba.  In terms of reserves and surplus, Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 38.40 Arba, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained the second position with Rs 31.03 Arba reserve and surplus fund and Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 24.04 Arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 2.50 Kharba as a deposit. Only 9 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the fourth quarter of FY 2079/80,  Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 4.26 Kharba, and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 3.96 Kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Nepal Investment Mega Bank (NIMB) with a collected deposit of Rs 3.54 Kharba respectively. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 1.17 Kharba.   The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 3.56 Kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 3.32 Kharba.  Similarly, on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 77.86 Arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 2.06 Kharba. 9 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 2.06 Kharba.   Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with an income of Rs 17.98 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 17.12 Arba.   Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 34.11 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses.  Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 5.47 Arba followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with a total of Rs. 3.89 Arba. In the same vein, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the lowest of impairment charge for a loan and other losses of Rs. 39 Crores.   NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 40.22 per share. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 37.39 per share. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 31.72 per share. Conversely, Kumari Bank Limited (ADBL) stays at the bottom with an Earning of Rs. 7.46 per share. The average EPS of 20 commercial banks stands at Rs 21. Only 9 commercial banks provide EPS higher than that of the industry average.   Everest Bank Limited (EBL) and NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) have unveiled their distributable profit per share to be over Rs. 30. For the former, it is Rs. 40.05 which is the highest among all commercial banks, while for the latter it stands at Rs. 32. Conversely, only two commercial banks, Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) and Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL), have reported negative distributable profits per share of Rs. -3.23 and Rs. -3.28, respectively.  The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 345.58 which belongs to Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL). NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is in the second position with Rs 256.41. Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q4 of FY 2079/80 i.e. Rs 248.94. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has the least net worth of Rs 140.47 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 191.01 per share. 7 companies have a net worth more than the industry average.   Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  has the least PE ratio of 9.17 times. It is followed by Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) with a PE ratio of 10.72 times.  (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios but rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio) *Note that Out of 20 commercial banks, the PE ratio of RBBL and LSBL isn't available as RBBL is not a listed company and LSBL is a newly merged company that is yet to be listed in NEPSE.   In terms of the Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 17.12%. This is followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with a CAR of 15.05%. CAR is the ratio of a bank’s capital in relation to its risk-weighted assets and current liabilities.   In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported the lowest NPL of 0.79% in terms of asset quality.  Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has reported the highest NPL of 4.77%, followed by Himalayan  Bank Limited (HBL) with an NPL of 4.57%   Cost of Funds: The term cost of funds refers to how much banks and financial institutions spend in order to acquire money to lend to their customers. The lower the cost of funds, the better because it ultimately reduces the cost of banks. As per reports, Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) has the highest Cost of Funds at 8.67%, whereas Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has the lowest cost of funds at 6.11%. CD Ratio: The CD ratio refers to the credit-deposit ratio in banking parlance. It tells how much of the money banks have raised in the form of deposits has been deployed as loans. Likewise, Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) has reported the highest CD ratio of 88.72%, whereas Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the lowest CD ratio of 74.84%. Base Rate and Interest Spread: Base rate is defined as the minimum interest rate set by the NRB below which Commercial banks are not permitted to lend to their customers. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) reports the highest base rate of 10.90%, and Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has the lowest base rate of 7.79%. Similarly, the net interest rate spread is the difference between the interest rate a bank pays to depositors and the interest rate it receives from loans to consumers. Here, NABIL and NIMB have the highest interest spread of 4.99% each, whereas Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the lowest interest spread of 3.94% for the fourth quarter of FY 2079/80. Aside from that, commercial banks were to stick to a 4% spread rate till the end of fiscal year (FY) 2079–80, under NRB guidelines. However, the spread rate has only been held steady at 4% by 12 banks, though. The companies who went for merger and acquisition has a provision to maintain extra 1% spread i.e. upto 5%.   Finally, the table below shows provides a full picture of the major indicators of 20 commercial banks as of the fourth quarter of FY 2079-2080.  The fourth-quarter reports for the ongoing fiscal year 2079/80 have been unveiled by all 20 commercial banks, offering a comprehensive view of their financial performance, in line with the mandatory financial provision to make public the fourth-quarter report by Shrawan 21, 2080. Setting aside speculative notions, this article centers its attention on the evaluation of commercial banks' profitability and business volume indicators for the Q4 period of the fiscal year 2079/80. Through meticulous comparative analysis, we aim to shed light on the nuances of these crucial metrics. Without further delay, let's immerse ourselves in a quantitative exploration of the data. Note: Out of the previous 22 commercial banks in Nepal,  Himalayan Bank and Civil Bank signed MoU where Civil Bank got acquired by Himalayan Bank. Whereas, Laxmi Bank and Sunrise Bank completed their merger, forming Laxmi Sunrise, on 29th Ashadh 2080. As per the net profit of the fourth quarter of FY 2079/80, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs. 7.53 Arba with a growth of 51.51% as compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) also reported a net profit of Rs. 7.25 Arba with a growth of 39.16%, hence it stands in the second position to accumulate higher profits for the fourth quarter. In the third position, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) has a net profit of Rs 4.92 Arba. Also,  Standard Chartered Bank Limited (SCB) reported the highest growth in net profit by 55.51% in this quarter.  On the other hand, Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) reported a net profit of Rs. 2.26 Arba which has dropped by 38.59%.  *Note that Out of 20 commercial banks, the net profit of the newly merged banks - NIMB and LSBL is not compared with the fourth quarter of the relevant quarter.    Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 35.77 Arba capital,  Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) with Rs. 34.13 Arba, and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with Rs. 27.06 Arba paid-up capital.    Note: ADBL Capital includes Rs 5.43 Arba irredeemable non-cumulative preference shares. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 3.07 Kharba where the industry average of Rs 15.36 Arba.  In terms of reserves and surplus, Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 38.40 Arba, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained the second position with Rs 31.03 Arba reserve and surplus fund and Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 24.04 Arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 2.50 Kharba as a deposit. Only 9 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the fourth quarter of FY 2079/80,  Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 4.26 Kharba, and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 3.96 Kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Nepal Investment Mega Bank (NIMB) with a collected deposit of Rs 3.54 Kharba respectively. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 1.17 Kharba.   The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 3.56 Kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 3.32 Kharba.  Similarly, on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 77.86 Arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 2.06 Kharba. 9 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 2.06 Kharba.   Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with an income of Rs 17.98 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 17.12 Arba.   Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 34.11 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses.  Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 5.47 Arba followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with a total of Rs. 3.89 Arba. In the same vein, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the lowest of impairment charge for a loan and other losses of Rs. 39 Crores.   NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 40.22 per share. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 37.39 per share. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 31.72 per share. Conversely, Kumari Bank Limited (ADBL) stays at the bottom with an Earning of Rs. 7.46 per share. The average EPS of 20 commercial banks stands at Rs 21. Only 9 commercial banks provide EPS higher than that of the industry average.   Everest Bank Limited (EBL) and NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) have unveiled their distributable profit per share to be over Rs. 30. For the former, it is Rs. 40.05 which is the highest among all commercial banks, while for the latter it stands at Rs. 32. Conversely, only two commercial banks, Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) and Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL), have reported negative distributable profits per share of Rs. -3.23 and Rs. -3.28, respectively.  The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 345.58 which belongs to Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL). NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is in the second position with Rs 256.41. Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q4 of FY 2079/80 i.e. Rs 248.94. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has the least net worth of Rs 140.47 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 191.01 per share. 7 companies have a net worth more than the industry average.   Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  has the least PE ratio of 9.17 times. It is followed by Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) with a PE ratio of 10.72 times.  (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios but rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio) *Note that Out of 20 commercial banks, the PE ratio of RBBL and LSBL isn't available as RBBL is not a listed company and LSBL is a newly merged company that is yet to be listed in NEPSE.   In terms of the Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 17.12%. This is followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with a CAR of 15.05%. CAR is the ratio of a bank’s capital in relation to its risk-weighted assets and current liabilities.   In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported the lowest NPL of 0.79% in terms of asset quality.  Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has reported the highest NPL of 4.77%, followed by Himalayan  Bank Limited (HBL) with an NPL of 4.57%   Cost of Funds: The term cost of funds refers to how much banks and financial institutions spend in order to acquire money to lend to their customers. The lower the cost of funds, the better because it ultimately reduces the cost of banks. As per reports, Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) has the highest Cost of Funds at 8.67%, whereas Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has the lowest cost of funds at 6.11%. CD Ratio: The CD ratio refers to the credit-deposit ratio in banking parlance. It tells how much of the money banks have raised in the form of deposits has been deployed as loans. Likewise, Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) has reported the highest CD ratio of 88.72%, whereas Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the lowest CD ratio of 74.84%. Base Rate and Interest Spread: Base rate is defined as the minimum interest rate set by the NRB below which Commercial banks are not permitted to lend to their customers. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) reports the highest base rate of 10.90%, and Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has the lowest base rate of 7.79%. Similarly, the net interest rate spread is the difference between the interest rate a bank pays to depositors and the interest rate it receives from loans to consumers. Here, NABIL and NIMB have the highest interest spread of 4.99% each, whereas Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the lowest interest spread of 3.94% for the fourth quarter of FY 2079/80. Aside from that, commercial banks were to stick to a 4% spread rate till the end of fiscal year (FY) 2079–80, under NRB guidelines. However, the spread rate has only been held steady at 4% by 12 banks, though. The companies who went for merger and acquisition has a provision to maintain extra 1% spread i.e. upto 5%.   Finally, the table below shows provides a full picture of the major indicators of 20 commercial banks as of the fourth quarter of FY 2079-2080.  "
2023-08-07,"Ashad 2080 Snapshot: Nepal's Commercial Banks Display Diverse Base and Spread Rates, RBB Leads with Lowest Base Rate",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/ashad-2080-snapshot-nepals-commercial-banks-display-diverse-base-and-spread-rates-rbb-leads-with-lowest-base-rate-2023-08-07,"Base Rate (BR) is the minimum interest rate set by a central bank or regulatory authority for lending money to commercial banks. It serves as a benchmark or reference rate for the interest rates that banks charge on their loans to borrowers. The base rate represents the foundation for determining the cost of funds for banks. It is established to ensure transparency, fairness, and consistency in the lending process. Meanwhile, the interest spread is the difference between the interest income a bank earns from its assets (such as loans and investments) and the interest expenses it pays on its liabilities (such as deposits and borrowed funds). It reflects the core profitability of a bank's lending and borrowing activities. A positive interest spread indicates that the bank is earning more interest income from its loans than it is paying in interest on its funding sources. The interest spread highlights the efficiency with which a bank can turn its liabilities into profitable assets. In the case of Nepal, the base rate system mandated by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) serves as a crucial mechanism for guiding interest rates in the country's financial sector. By setting a minimum benchmark rate, NRB aims to promote consistency, fairness, and effective monetary policy transmission. The base rate, along with a credit risk premium, helps determine the actual interest rates on loans, reflecting the borrower's creditworthiness and the bank's cost of funds. In the financial landscape of Nepal's commercial banks during Ashad 2080, intriguing patterns emerged from the base rates and spread rates of these institutions. Among the 20 banks, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) stood out with the lowest base rate of 8.02 percent. This showcased a favorable lending environment from their end during that period. On the other end of the spectrum, Himalayan Bank captured attention for having the highest base rate at 10.92%. This distinctive rate hinted at a potentially different lending strategy or market positioning compared to its peers. Note that the newly merged institution, Laxmi Sunrise Bank, was not included in this analysis. This could be attributed to its recent merger and the resulting adjustments that might have influenced its base and spread rates.   Delving into spread rates, Nabil Bank (NABIL) and Nepal Investment Mega Bank (NIMB) took the lead with both institutions boasting a spread rate of 4.99%. In contrast, Nepal Bank (NBL) and Machhapuchchhre Bank (MBL) chose a more conservative approach, reporting the lowest spread rate of 3.95% each. This measured stance might reflect their commitment to stability and reliability in their lending practices.   Base Rate (BR) is the minimum interest rate set by a central bank or regulatory authority for lending money to commercial banks. It serves as a benchmark or reference rate for the interest rates that banks charge on their loans to borrowers. The base rate represents the foundation for determining the cost of funds for banks. It is established to ensure transparency, fairness, and consistency in the lending process. Meanwhile, the interest spread is the difference between the interest income a bank earns from its assets (such as loans and investments) and the interest expenses it pays on its liabilities (such as deposits and borrowed funds). It reflects the core profitability of a bank's lending and borrowing activities. A positive interest spread indicates that the bank is earning more interest income from its loans than it is paying in interest on its funding sources. The interest spread highlights the efficiency with which a bank can turn its liabilities into profitable assets. In the case of Nepal, the base rate system mandated by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) serves as a crucial mechanism for guiding interest rates in the country's financial sector. By setting a minimum benchmark rate, NRB aims to promote consistency, fairness, and effective monetary policy transmission. The base rate, along with a credit risk premium, helps determine the actual interest rates on loans, reflecting the borrower's creditworthiness and the bank's cost of funds. In the financial landscape of Nepal's commercial banks during Ashad 2080, intriguing patterns emerged from the base rates and spread rates of these institutions. Among the 20 banks, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) stood out with the lowest base rate of 8.02 percent. This showcased a favorable lending environment from their end during that period. On the other end of the spectrum, Himalayan Bank captured attention for having the highest base rate at 10.92%. This distinctive rate hinted at a potentially different lending strategy or market positioning compared to its peers. Note that the newly merged institution, Laxmi Sunrise Bank, was not included in this analysis. This could be attributed to its recent merger and the resulting adjustments that might have influenced its base and spread rates.   Delving into spread rates, Nabil Bank (NABIL) and Nepal Investment Mega Bank (NIMB) took the lead with both institutions boasting a spread rate of 4.99%. In contrast, Nepal Bank (NBL) and Machhapuchchhre Bank (MBL) chose a more conservative approach, reporting the lowest spread rate of 3.95% each. This measured stance might reflect their commitment to stability and reliability in their lending practices.   Base Rate (BR) is the minimum interest rate set by a central bank or regulatory authority for lending money to commercial banks. It serves as a benchmark or reference rate for the interest rates that banks charge on their loans to borrowers. The base rate represents the foundation for determining the cost of funds for banks. It is established to ensure transparency, fairness, and consistency in the lending process. Meanwhile, the interest spread is the difference between the interest income a bank earns from its assets (such as loans and investments) and the interest expenses it pays on its liabilities (such as deposits and borrowed funds). It reflects the core profitability of a bank's lending and borrowing activities. A positive interest spread indicates that the bank is earning more interest income from its loans than it is paying in interest on its funding sources. The interest spread highlights the efficiency with which a bank can turn its liabilities into profitable assets. In the case of Nepal, the base rate system mandated by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) serves as a crucial mechanism for guiding interest rates in the country's financial sector. By setting a minimum benchmark rate, NRB aims to promote consistency, fairness, and effective monetary policy transmission. The base rate, along with a credit risk premium, helps determine the actual interest rates on loans, reflecting the borrower's creditworthiness and the bank's cost of funds. In the financial landscape of Nepal's commercial banks during Ashad 2080, intriguing patterns emerged from the base rates and spread rates of these institutions. Among the 20 banks, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) stood out with the lowest base rate of 8.02 percent. This showcased a favorable lending environment from their end during that period. On the other end of the spectrum, Himalayan Bank captured attention for having the highest base rate at 10.92%. This distinctive rate hinted at a potentially different lending strategy or market positioning compared to its peers. Note that the newly merged institution, Laxmi Sunrise Bank, was not included in this analysis. This could be attributed to its recent merger and the resulting adjustments that might have influenced its base and spread rates.   Delving into spread rates, Nabil Bank (NABIL) and Nepal Investment Mega Bank (NIMB) took the lead with both institutions boasting a spread rate of 4.99%. In contrast, Nepal Bank (NBL) and Machhapuchchhre Bank (MBL) chose a more conservative approach, reporting the lowest spread rate of 3.95% each. This measured stance might reflect their commitment to stability and reliability in their lending practices.   "
2023-08-06,Comparative Analysis: Unraveling Net Profit and Distributable Profit Per Share Among Commercial Banks,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/comparative-analysis-unraveling-net-profit-and-distributable-profit-per-share-among-commercial-banks-2023-08-06,"According to the binding financial provision, commercial banks, development banks, and other financial institutions are obligated to unveil their respective fourth-quarter reports by Shrawan 21. In line with the same, all 20 commercial banks have publicized their fourth quarter report for the recently wrapped financial year 2079-80. Among the 20 commercial banks only two including Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) and Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) have witnessed negative growth in their Net Profits as of FY 2079-80’s end in comparison to the corresponding quarter of the previous financial year 2078-79. Kumari Bank has recorded the worst negative difference in its Net Profit by 24.12 percent as the institution has managed to earn only Rs. 1.99 Arba as of FY 2079-80 end as opposed to Rs. 2.57 Arba that it had accumulated in profits until the corresponding quarter of the financial year 2078-79. The same fate lies with Prime Commercial Bank, with it reporting an 18.60 percent comparative negative growth in its profit margin. On the other hand, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has seen significant positive growth in its Net profits of 76.94 percent, totaling Rs. 7.52 Arba, which is the most among all commercial banks, both in terms of the amount as well as the highest positive difference. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) too has unveiled impressive numbers with it making a whopping Rs. 7.25 Arba as of the last quarter of FY 2079-80, which in comparison is 46.17 percent more than what it had earned up to the corresponding quarter of the financial year 2078-79. Likewise, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB), which had made only Rs. 2.25 Arba as of FY 2078-79’s end after recording a sharp increase of 56.44 percent, has earned Rs. 3.52 Arba until the last quarter of the financial year 2079-80. Everest Bank Limited (EBL), Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL), Agricultural Bank Limited, Prabhu Bank Limited, and Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI), have all booked more than a 30 percent increase in their respective Net Profits as of the end of the fiscal year 2079-80 compared to the corresponding quarter of the financial year 2078-79. The Banks have made Rs. 3.39 Arba, 3.26 Arba, 3.10 Arba, Rs. 2.82, and Rs. 2.24 Arba, respectively as of Q4 of FY 2079-80. The recently merged entity, Laxmi Sunrise Bank Limited (LSBL) has made public its fourth-quarter report for the past financial year 2079-80, with Rs. 2.26 Arba in Net profits. READ ALSO: Recently Merged Laxmi Sunrise Bank Publicizes Q4 Report; Earns Rs. 2.26 Arba in Net Profits; Distributable Profit at Rs. 1.92 Arba Machhapuchchhre Bank Limited (MBL) has turned the least amount in Net profits amounting to Rs. 1.85 Arba until Ashad, 31, 2080, however, has recorded a stable 10.12 percent increase compared to the last quarter of FY 2078-79. The combined Net profits of all 20 commercial banks too have surged by Rs. 14.04 Arba as of the last quarter of the recently concluded FY 2079-80. The commercial banks have collectively profited Rs. 70.12 Arba as of FY 2079-80 as opposed to the collective wealth of Rs. 56.08 created by the banks up to the corresponding quarter of FY 2078-79. In the same manner, an average difference of 25.03 percent in growth of Net profits between the same periods can be seen. Net profits for commercial banks are undoubtedly crucial indicators of their financial health and performance. However, it is equally important to ensure that these profits translate into tangible value for the investors and shareholders. One significant aspect to consider, in addition to the overall net profits of the banks, is the distributable profits per share. This metric provides valuable insights into the dividend prospects for shareholders, indicating how much profit they may expect to receive on a per-share basis.  As of the end of the last quarter of the fiscal year 2079-80, only two commercial banks, namely--Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) and Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL), have reported negative distributable profits per share of Rs. -3.23 and Rs. -3.28, respectively. Moreover, other two banking institutions, including Prabhu Bank Limited (PRVU) and Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) have recorded poor distributable profits per share, each less than Rs. 1, while Prime Commercial Bank Limited’s (PCBL) distributable profits per share just surpass Rs 1, as of the end of the last quarter of FY 2079-80. On the other hand, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) and NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) have unveiled their distributable profit per share to be over Rs. 30. For the former, it is Rs. 40.05 which is the highest among all commercial banks, while for the latter it stands at Rs. 32. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) too has unveiled its distributable profit per share at Rs. 28.99, which has risen from only Rs. 23.31 until the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year 2078-79. Similarly, the distributable profit per share of Agricultural Bank Limited (ADBL) and Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) comes close to Rs 20 each, with it Rs. 19.89 and Rs. 17.73, respectively, as of the end of the last quarter of the recently concluded financial year.   According to the binding financial provision, commercial banks, development banks, and other financial institutions are obligated to unveil their respective fourth-quarter reports by Shrawan 21. In line with the same, all 20 commercial banks have publicized their fourth quarter report for the recently wrapped financial year 2079-80. Among the 20 commercial banks only two including Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) and Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) have witnessed negative growth in their Net Profits as of FY 2079-80’s end in comparison to the corresponding quarter of the previous financial year 2078-79. Kumari Bank has recorded the worst negative difference in its Net Profit by 24.12 percent as the institution has managed to earn only Rs. 1.99 Arba as of FY 2079-80 end as opposed to Rs. 2.57 Arba that it had accumulated in profits until the corresponding quarter of the financial year 2078-79. The same fate lies with Prime Commercial Bank, with it reporting an 18.60 percent comparative negative growth in its profit margin. On the other hand, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has seen significant positive growth in its Net profits of 76.94 percent, totaling Rs. 7.52 Arba, which is the most among all commercial banks, both in terms of the amount as well as the highest positive difference. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) too has unveiled impressive numbers with it making a whopping Rs. 7.25 Arba as of the last quarter of FY 2079-80, which in comparison is 46.17 percent more than what it had earned up to the corresponding quarter of the financial year 2078-79. Likewise, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB), which had made only Rs. 2.25 Arba as of FY 2078-79’s end after recording a sharp increase of 56.44 percent, has earned Rs. 3.52 Arba until the last quarter of the financial year 2079-80. Everest Bank Limited (EBL), Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL), Agricultural Bank Limited, Prabhu Bank Limited, and Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI), have all booked more than a 30 percent increase in their respective Net Profits as of the end of the fiscal year 2079-80 compared to the corresponding quarter of the financial year 2078-79. The Banks have made Rs. 3.39 Arba, 3.26 Arba, 3.10 Arba, Rs. 2.82, and Rs. 2.24 Arba, respectively as of Q4 of FY 2079-80. The recently merged entity, Laxmi Sunrise Bank Limited (LSBL) has made public its fourth-quarter report for the past financial year 2079-80, with Rs. 2.26 Arba in Net profits. READ ALSO: Recently Merged Laxmi Sunrise Bank Publicizes Q4 Report; Earns Rs. 2.26 Arba in Net Profits; Distributable Profit at Rs. 1.92 Arba Machhapuchchhre Bank Limited (MBL) has turned the least amount in Net profits amounting to Rs. 1.85 Arba until Ashad, 31, 2080, however, has recorded a stable 10.12 percent increase compared to the last quarter of FY 2078-79. The combined Net profits of all 20 commercial banks too have surged by Rs. 14.04 Arba as of the last quarter of the recently concluded FY 2079-80. The commercial banks have collectively profited Rs. 70.12 Arba as of FY 2079-80 as opposed to the collective wealth of Rs. 56.08 created by the banks up to the corresponding quarter of FY 2078-79. In the same manner, an average difference of 25.03 percent in growth of Net profits between the same periods can be seen. Net profits for commercial banks are undoubtedly crucial indicators of their financial health and performance. However, it is equally important to ensure that these profits translate into tangible value for the investors and shareholders. One significant aspect to consider, in addition to the overall net profits of the banks, is the distributable profits per share. This metric provides valuable insights into the dividend prospects for shareholders, indicating how much profit they may expect to receive on a per-share basis.  As of the end of the last quarter of the fiscal year 2079-80, only two commercial banks, namely--Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) and Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL), have reported negative distributable profits per share of Rs. -3.23 and Rs. -3.28, respectively. Moreover, other two banking institutions, including Prabhu Bank Limited (PRVU) and Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) have recorded poor distributable profits per share, each less than Rs. 1, while Prime Commercial Bank Limited’s (PCBL) distributable profits per share just surpass Rs 1, as of the end of the last quarter of FY 2079-80. On the other hand, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) and NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) have unveiled their distributable profit per share to be over Rs. 30. For the former, it is Rs. 40.05 which is the highest among all commercial banks, while for the latter it stands at Rs. 32. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) too has unveiled its distributable profit per share at Rs. 28.99, which has risen from only Rs. 23.31 until the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year 2078-79. Similarly, the distributable profit per share of Agricultural Bank Limited (ADBL) and Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) comes close to Rs 20 each, with it Rs. 19.89 and Rs. 17.73, respectively, as of the end of the last quarter of the recently concluded financial year.   According to the binding financial provision, commercial banks, development banks, and other financial institutions are obligated to unveil their respective fourth-quarter reports by Shrawan 21. In line with the same, all 20 commercial banks have publicized their fourth quarter report for the recently wrapped financial year 2079-80. Among the 20 commercial banks only two including Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) and Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) have witnessed negative growth in their Net Profits as of FY 2079-80’s end in comparison to the corresponding quarter of the previous financial year 2078-79. Kumari Bank has recorded the worst negative difference in its Net Profit by 24.12 percent as the institution has managed to earn only Rs. 1.99 Arba as of FY 2079-80 end as opposed to Rs. 2.57 Arba that it had accumulated in profits until the corresponding quarter of the financial year 2078-79. The same fate lies with Prime Commercial Bank, with it reporting an 18.60 percent comparative negative growth in its profit margin. On the other hand, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has seen significant positive growth in its Net profits of 76.94 percent, totaling Rs. 7.52 Arba, which is the most among all commercial banks, both in terms of the amount as well as the highest positive difference. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) too has unveiled impressive numbers with it making a whopping Rs. 7.25 Arba as of the last quarter of FY 2079-80, which in comparison is 46.17 percent more than what it had earned up to the corresponding quarter of the financial year 2078-79. Likewise, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB), which had made only Rs. 2.25 Arba as of FY 2078-79’s end after recording a sharp increase of 56.44 percent, has earned Rs. 3.52 Arba until the last quarter of the financial year 2079-80. Everest Bank Limited (EBL), Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL), Agricultural Bank Limited, Prabhu Bank Limited, and Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI), have all booked more than a 30 percent increase in their respective Net Profits as of the end of the fiscal year 2079-80 compared to the corresponding quarter of the financial year 2078-79. The Banks have made Rs. 3.39 Arba, 3.26 Arba, 3.10 Arba, Rs. 2.82, and Rs. 2.24 Arba, respectively as of Q4 of FY 2079-80. The recently merged entity, Laxmi Sunrise Bank Limited (LSBL) has made public its fourth-quarter report for the past financial year 2079-80, with Rs. 2.26 Arba in Net profits. READ ALSO: Recently Merged Laxmi Sunrise Bank Publicizes Q4 Report; Earns Rs. 2.26 Arba in Net Profits; Distributable Profit at Rs. 1.92 Arba Machhapuchchhre Bank Limited (MBL) has turned the least amount in Net profits amounting to Rs. 1.85 Arba until Ashad, 31, 2080, however, has recorded a stable 10.12 percent increase compared to the last quarter of FY 2078-79. The combined Net profits of all 20 commercial banks too have surged by Rs. 14.04 Arba as of the last quarter of the recently concluded FY 2079-80. The commercial banks have collectively profited Rs. 70.12 Arba as of FY 2079-80 as opposed to the collective wealth of Rs. 56.08 created by the banks up to the corresponding quarter of FY 2078-79. In the same manner, an average difference of 25.03 percent in growth of Net profits between the same periods can be seen. Net profits for commercial banks are undoubtedly crucial indicators of their financial health and performance. However, it is equally important to ensure that these profits translate into tangible value for the investors and shareholders. One significant aspect to consider, in addition to the overall net profits of the banks, is the distributable profits per share. This metric provides valuable insights into the dividend prospects for shareholders, indicating how much profit they may expect to receive on a per-share basis.  As of the end of the last quarter of the fiscal year 2079-80, only two commercial banks, namely--Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) and Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL), have reported negative distributable profits per share of Rs. -3.23 and Rs. -3.28, respectively. Moreover, other two banking institutions, including Prabhu Bank Limited (PRVU) and Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) have recorded poor distributable profits per share, each less than Rs. 1, while Prime Commercial Bank Limited’s (PCBL) distributable profits per share just surpass Rs 1, as of the end of the last quarter of FY 2079-80. On the other hand, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) and NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) have unveiled their distributable profit per share to be over Rs. 30. For the former, it is Rs. 40.05 which is the highest among all commercial banks, while for the latter it stands at Rs. 32. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) too has unveiled its distributable profit per share at Rs. 28.99, which has risen from only Rs. 23.31 until the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year 2078-79. Similarly, the distributable profit per share of Agricultural Bank Limited (ADBL) and Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) comes close to Rs 20 each, with it Rs. 19.89 and Rs. 17.73, respectively, as of the end of the last quarter of the recently concluded financial year.   "
2023-08-06,Nabil Bank Makes Public Q4 Report with Rs. 7.52 Arba in Net Profits; Doubles its Core Business Revenue,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-makes-public-q4-report-with-rs-752-arba-in-net-profits-doubles-its-core-business-revenue-2023-08-06,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its fourth-quarter report for the recently concluded financial year 2079-80 with overall improvement across financial indicators. The bank has recorded an impressive increase of 76.86 percent in its Net profits. As of FY 2079-80, the bank has made Rs. 7.52 Arba as opposed to only Rs.4.25 Arba it had earned in the corresponding quarter of FY 2078-79. The deposits in the financial institution have increased by 21.65 percent totaling Rs. 3.96 Kharba as of FY 2079-80’s end. Likewise, the loan disbursement too has increased by 10.82 percent amounting to Rs. 3.32 Kharba as of the same period. The core business revenue of the bank (Net Interest Income) has a little more than doubled and amounts to Rs. 17.98 Arba as of the FY 2079-80 last quarter, alongside a substantial increase of 75.37 percent in its Operating profits. The impairment allocation of the bank has increased significantly and sums up to Rs. 3.88 Arba as of the last quarter of the financial year 2079-80.  Despite an Earnings per Share (EPS) of Rs. 27.82 after a comparative improvement, its distributable profit per share stands at Rs. 14.64 until the end of the financial year 2079-80, with a Net worth per Share of Rs. 214.69. The commercial bank has Rs. 3.96 Arba available for distribution amongst its shareholders as of Ashad 31, 2080.   NABIL maintains Rs. 27.05 Arba in paid-up capital and Rs. 31.03 Arba in reserves and surplus, which puts the company in robust financial standing. Click here for Q4 report:  Major Financial Highlights:  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its fourth-quarter report for the recently concluded financial year 2079-80 with overall improvement across financial indicators. The bank has recorded an impressive increase of 76.86 percent in its Net profits. As of FY 2079-80, the bank has made Rs. 7.52 Arba as opposed to only Rs.4.25 Arba it had earned in the corresponding quarter of FY 2078-79. The deposits in the financial institution have increased by 21.65 percent totaling Rs. 3.96 Kharba as of FY 2079-80’s end. Likewise, the loan disbursement too has increased by 10.82 percent amounting to Rs. 3.32 Kharba as of the same period. The core business revenue of the bank (Net Interest Income) has a little more than doubled and amounts to Rs. 17.98 Arba as of the FY 2079-80 last quarter, alongside a substantial increase of 75.37 percent in its Operating profits. The impairment allocation of the bank has increased significantly and sums up to Rs. 3.88 Arba as of the last quarter of the financial year 2079-80.  Despite an Earnings per Share (EPS) of Rs. 27.82 after a comparative improvement, its distributable profit per share stands at Rs. 14.64 until the end of the financial year 2079-80, with a Net worth per Share of Rs. 214.69. The commercial bank has Rs. 3.96 Arba available for distribution amongst its shareholders as of Ashad 31, 2080.   NABIL maintains Rs. 27.05 Arba in paid-up capital and Rs. 31.03 Arba in reserves and surplus, which puts the company in robust financial standing. Click here for Q4 report:  Major Financial Highlights:  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its fourth-quarter report for the recently concluded financial year 2079-80 with overall improvement across financial indicators. The bank has recorded an impressive increase of 76.86 percent in its Net profits. As of FY 2079-80, the bank has made Rs. 7.52 Arba as opposed to only Rs.4.25 Arba it had earned in the corresponding quarter of FY 2078-79. The deposits in the financial institution have increased by 21.65 percent totaling Rs. 3.96 Kharba as of FY 2079-80’s end. Likewise, the loan disbursement too has increased by 10.82 percent amounting to Rs. 3.32 Kharba as of the same period. The core business revenue of the bank (Net Interest Income) has a little more than doubled and amounts to Rs. 17.98 Arba as of the FY 2079-80 last quarter, alongside a substantial increase of 75.37 percent in its Operating profits. The impairment allocation of the bank has increased significantly and sums up to Rs. 3.88 Arba as of the last quarter of the financial year 2079-80.  Despite an Earnings per Share (EPS) of Rs. 27.82 after a comparative improvement, its distributable profit per share stands at Rs. 14.64 until the end of the financial year 2079-80, with a Net worth per Share of Rs. 214.69. The commercial bank has Rs. 3.96 Arba available for distribution amongst its shareholders as of Ashad 31, 2080.   NABIL maintains Rs. 27.05 Arba in paid-up capital and Rs. 31.03 Arba in reserves and surplus, which puts the company in robust financial standing. Click here for Q4 report:  Major Financial Highlights:  "
2023-08-03,Nabil Bank inks MoU with Ganapati Vanaspati for channel financing service to its authorized dealers and distributors,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inks-mou-with-ganapati-vanaspati-for-channel-financing-service-to-its-authorized-dealers-and-distributors-2023-08-03,"Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Ganapati Vanaspati Ltd under Lucky Group to extend a channel financing facility to the authorized dealers and distributors of the oil manufacturer. The MoU was signed between MD of the oil manufacturer Mr Amit More and CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Dhungana, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Ganapati Vanaspati Ltd under Lucky Group to extend a channel financing facility to the authorized dealers and distributors of the oil manufacturer. The MoU was signed between MD of the oil manufacturer Mr Amit More and CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Dhungana, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Ganapati Vanaspati Ltd under Lucky Group to extend a channel financing facility to the authorized dealers and distributors of the oil manufacturer. The MoU was signed between MD of the oil manufacturer Mr Amit More and CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Dhungana, as per the media statement. "
2023-07-23,Nabil Bank receives National Best Presented Annual Report Award 2022 from ICAN,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-receives-national-best-presented-annual-report-award-2022-from-ican-2023-07-23,"Nabil Bank has received National Best Presented Annual Report Award (NBPA), 2022) from the Nepal Charter Accountants Association (ICAN) for the financial report it presented in the previous fiscal year. The bank has received such a felicitation for its priority for financial transparency, accountability and professionalism, as per the media statement. The award was handed over by Finance Minister Dr. Prakash Saran Mahat to Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Bhupendra Pandey amid a program, as per the media statement. One of the leading banks in Nepal, Nabil Bank has its presence via 265 branches and 298 ATM outlets under its network. Nabil Bank has received National Best Presented Annual Report Award (NBPA), 2022) from the Nepal Charter Accountants Association (ICAN) for the financial report it presented in the previous fiscal year. The bank has received such a felicitation for its priority for financial transparency, accountability and professionalism, as per the media statement. The award was handed over by Finance Minister Dr. Prakash Saran Mahat to Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Bhupendra Pandey amid a program, as per the media statement. One of the leading banks in Nepal, Nabil Bank has its presence via 265 branches and 298 ATM outlets under its network. Nabil Bank has received National Best Presented Annual Report Award (NBPA), 2022) from the Nepal Charter Accountants Association (ICAN) for the financial report it presented in the previous fiscal year. The bank has received such a felicitation for its priority for financial transparency, accountability and professionalism, as per the media statement. The award was handed over by Finance Minister Dr. Prakash Saran Mahat to Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Bhupendra Pandey amid a program, as per the media statement. One of the leading banks in Nepal, Nabil Bank has its presence via 265 branches and 298 ATM outlets under its network. "
2023-07-23,Nabil Bank Urges Shareholders of Former Nepal Bangladesh Bank and United Finance to Claim Due Dividends,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-urges-shareholders-of-former-nepal-bangladesh-bank-and-united-finance-to-claim-due-dividends-2023-07-23,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published a very important notice to the shareholders of former (Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited and United Finance Limited) to collect uncollected due dividends passed by various general meetings. Even after 5 years of dividend distribution some of the shareholders haven't collected the dividend from the bank yet. Investors who haven't claimed the dividend should present their share certificate and proof of identity to the company's share department to claim their dividend at Nabil Investment Banking Limited, Naxal, Narayanchaur, Kathmandu along with copies of the necessary documents to receive the due dividend. Otherwise, according to section 183 of the Companies Act, 2063, the uncollected due dividend will be deposited in the ""Investor Protection Fund"". Notice Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published a very important notice to the shareholders of former (Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited and United Finance Limited) to collect uncollected due dividends passed by various general meetings. Even after 5 years of dividend distribution some of the shareholders haven't collected the dividend from the bank yet. Investors who haven't claimed the dividend should present their share certificate and proof of identity to the company's share department to claim their dividend at Nabil Investment Banking Limited, Naxal, Narayanchaur, Kathmandu along with copies of the necessary documents to receive the due dividend. Otherwise, according to section 183 of the Companies Act, 2063, the uncollected due dividend will be deposited in the ""Investor Protection Fund"". Notice Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published a very important notice to the shareholders of former (Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited and United Finance Limited) to collect uncollected due dividends passed by various general meetings. Even after 5 years of dividend distribution some of the shareholders haven't collected the dividend from the bank yet. Investors who haven't claimed the dividend should present their share certificate and proof of identity to the company's share department to claim their dividend at Nabil Investment Banking Limited, Naxal, Narayanchaur, Kathmandu along with copies of the necessary documents to receive the due dividend. Otherwise, according to section 183 of the Companies Act, 2063, the uncollected due dividend will be deposited in the ""Investor Protection Fund"". Notice "
2023-07-21,Nabil Bank calls applications for 3rd edition of Nabil SSE Fellowship program; budding entrepreneurs from diverse fields to receive close mentoring for 6 months,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-calls-applications-for-3rd-edition-of-nabil-sse-fellowship-program-budding-entrepreneurs-from-diverse-fields-to-receive-close-mentoring-for-6-months-2023-07-21,"Nabil Bank has called applications for the third batch of the Nabil Social Entrepreneurship program Nabil SSE. The bank has been training and providing growth opportunities to Nepalese youths in association with Tribhuvan University School of Management to launch their enterprises in agriculture, tourism, energy, environment conservation, ICT and many other domains. Interested ones can submit their application by filling in the Google form available on Nabil SSE’s Facebook page or the official website of the bank. Selected youths will receive six month long fellowship opportunity to hone and groom their business ideas. They will have three days of the week invested in them at the residential training and the rest days at their own workplace improvising their business, as per the media statement. The bank has a deposit of Rs 378 arba, loans of Rs 340 arba, 20 lakh plus customers, 265 branches, 298 ATM outlets under its growing network.   Nabil Bank has called applications for the third batch of the Nabil Social Entrepreneurship program Nabil SSE. The bank has been training and providing growth opportunities to Nepalese youths in association with Tribhuvan University School of Management to launch their enterprises in agriculture, tourism, energy, environment conservation, ICT and many other domains. Interested ones can submit their application by filling in the Google form available on Nabil SSE’s Facebook page or the official website of the bank. Selected youths will receive six month long fellowship opportunity to hone and groom their business ideas. They will have three days of the week invested in them at the residential training and the rest days at their own workplace improvising their business, as per the media statement. The bank has a deposit of Rs 378 arba, loans of Rs 340 arba, 20 lakh plus customers, 265 branches, 298 ATM outlets under its growing network.   Nabil Bank has called applications for the third batch of the Nabil Social Entrepreneurship program Nabil SSE. The bank has been training and providing growth opportunities to Nepalese youths in association with Tribhuvan University School of Management to launch their enterprises in agriculture, tourism, energy, environment conservation, ICT and many other domains. Interested ones can submit their application by filling in the Google form available on Nabil SSE’s Facebook page or the official website of the bank. Selected youths will receive six month long fellowship opportunity to hone and groom their business ideas. They will have three days of the week invested in them at the residential training and the rest days at their own workplace improvising their business, as per the media statement. The bank has a deposit of Rs 378 arba, loans of Rs 340 arba, 20 lakh plus customers, 265 branches, 298 ATM outlets under its growing network.   "
2023-07-16,Commercial Banks Revise Interest Rates For Shrawan After Interest Rate Cartelisation Ends,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-revise-interest-rates-for-shrawan-after-interest-rate-cartelisation-ends-2023-07-16,"The Nepal Bankers' Association (NBA) had taken a significant step by deciding to eliminate the long-standing interest rate cartelisation that has prevailed for a considerable period. MUST READ: Nepal Bankers' Association Ends Long-standing Interest Rate Cartelization, Allows Banks to Set Their Own Rates Following the same, the commercial banks have revealed the updated interest rates for the month of Shrawan, 2080.  NMB Bank Limited has set the highest interest rate for its maximum interest on general saving deposits among its saving products at 7.98 % per annum. On the contrary, Nepal SBI Bank has the lowest interest rate per annum at 6.4 % on general saving deposits. In the new interest rate applicable from Shrawan 1, NMB Bank has the highest rate. The bank has said that it will give 10.98 percent interest on fixed deposits and 7.99 percent interest on institutional deposits. Similarly, Standard Chartered Bank has the lowest rate of 8.95 percent. The bank gives 8.95 percent interest on individual term deposits and 6.95 percent interest on institutional deposits. Prime Bank has set interest rates of 10.93 percent for individuals and 8.93 percent for institutional depositors, Nabil Bank 10.49 percent for individuals, 8.49 percent for institutions, and Kumari Bank 10.01 percent for individuals and 7.51 percent for institutions. In the new interest rate announced to be effective from Shrawan, fifteen banks have a single-digit interest rate. In which 9.99 percent of Nepal Investment Mega Bank, 9.99 percent of personal and 7.99 percent of institutional of Global IME Bank, 9.99 percent of personal and 7.99 percent of Laxmi Sunrise Bank, 9.99 percent of personal and 7.99 percent of institutional of Nepal SBI Bank. And, Himalayan Bank is going to give 9.99 percent interest to individuals and 7.99 percent interest to institutions. Similarly, Citizens Bank has 9.99 percent for individuals and 7.99 percent for institutions, Sanima Bank has 9.52 percent for individuals and 7.52 percent for institutions, Agricultural Development Bank has 9.51 percent for individuals and 7.51 percent for institutions, and Everest Bank has 9.5 percent for individuals and 7.5 percent for institutions. Effective from Shrawan 1, Prabhu Bank will provide 9.5 percent for individuals and 7.5 percent for institutions, Siddharth Bank 9.5 percent for individuals and 7.5 percent for institutions, Machhapuchhre Bank 9 percent for individuals and 7 percent for institutions, Rastriya Banijya Bank 8.99 percent for individuals and 6.99 percent for institutional, and Nepal Bank will give 8.99 percent interest for individuals and 6.99 percent interest for institutions. The average interest rate of commercial banks in Shrawan is 9.72 percent. *The 10.98 % per annum interest rate for fixed deposit of NMB Bank is for a tenure of 10 years. Meanwhile, the tenure for 2-10 years will be able to entertain 9.75% per annum interest rate.  The earlier provision to fix the minimum tenure for six months replacing the prior limit of three months as decided and in effect since Baisakh (2080) has been suspended for fixed deposits. Now, the banks can fix the tenure for a minimum of three months as was in practice prior to Baisakh (2080).  The Nepal Bankers' Association (NBA) had taken a significant step by deciding to eliminate the long-standing interest rate cartelisation that has prevailed for a considerable period. MUST READ: Nepal Bankers' Association Ends Long-standing Interest Rate Cartelization, Allows Banks to Set Their Own Rates Following the same, the commercial banks have revealed the updated interest rates for the month of Shrawan, 2080.  NMB Bank Limited has set the highest interest rate for its maximum interest on general saving deposits among its saving products at 7.98 % per annum. On the contrary, Nepal SBI Bank has the lowest interest rate per annum at 6.4 % on general saving deposits. In the new interest rate applicable from Shrawan 1, NMB Bank has the highest rate. The bank has said that it will give 10.98 percent interest on fixed deposits and 7.99 percent interest on institutional deposits. Similarly, Standard Chartered Bank has the lowest rate of 8.95 percent. The bank gives 8.95 percent interest on individual term deposits and 6.95 percent interest on institutional deposits. Prime Bank has set interest rates of 10.93 percent for individuals and 8.93 percent for institutional depositors, Nabil Bank 10.49 percent for individuals, 8.49 percent for institutions, and Kumari Bank 10.01 percent for individuals and 7.51 percent for institutions. In the new interest rate announced to be effective from Shrawan, fifteen banks have a single-digit interest rate. In which 9.99 percent of Nepal Investment Mega Bank, 9.99 percent of personal and 7.99 percent of institutional of Global IME Bank, 9.99 percent of personal and 7.99 percent of Laxmi Sunrise Bank, 9.99 percent of personal and 7.99 percent of institutional of Nepal SBI Bank. And, Himalayan Bank is going to give 9.99 percent interest to individuals and 7.99 percent interest to institutions. Similarly, Citizens Bank has 9.99 percent for individuals and 7.99 percent for institutions, Sanima Bank has 9.52 percent for individuals and 7.52 percent for institutions, Agricultural Development Bank has 9.51 percent for individuals and 7.51 percent for institutions, and Everest Bank has 9.5 percent for individuals and 7.5 percent for institutions. Effective from Shrawan 1, Prabhu Bank will provide 9.5 percent for individuals and 7.5 percent for institutions, Siddharth Bank 9.5 percent for individuals and 7.5 percent for institutions, Machhapuchhre Bank 9 percent for individuals and 7 percent for institutions, Rastriya Banijya Bank 8.99 percent for individuals and 6.99 percent for institutional, and Nepal Bank will give 8.99 percent interest for individuals and 6.99 percent interest for institutions. The average interest rate of commercial banks in Shrawan is 9.72 percent. *The 10.98 % per annum interest rate for fixed deposit of NMB Bank is for a tenure of 10 years. Meanwhile, the tenure for 2-10 years will be able to entertain 9.75% per annum interest rate.  The earlier provision to fix the minimum tenure for six months replacing the prior limit of three months as decided and in effect since Baisakh (2080) has been suspended for fixed deposits. Now, the banks can fix the tenure for a minimum of three months as was in practice prior to Baisakh (2080).  The Nepal Bankers' Association (NBA) had taken a significant step by deciding to eliminate the long-standing interest rate cartelisation that has prevailed for a considerable period. MUST READ: Nepal Bankers' Association Ends Long-standing Interest Rate Cartelization, Allows Banks to Set Their Own Rates Following the same, the commercial banks have revealed the updated interest rates for the month of Shrawan, 2080.  NMB Bank Limited has set the highest interest rate for its maximum interest on general saving deposits among its saving products at 7.98 % per annum. On the contrary, Nepal SBI Bank has the lowest interest rate per annum at 6.4 % on general saving deposits. In the new interest rate applicable from Shrawan 1, NMB Bank has the highest rate. The bank has said that it will give 10.98 percent interest on fixed deposits and 7.99 percent interest on institutional deposits. Similarly, Standard Chartered Bank has the lowest rate of 8.95 percent. The bank gives 8.95 percent interest on individual term deposits and 6.95 percent interest on institutional deposits. Prime Bank has set interest rates of 10.93 percent for individuals and 8.93 percent for institutional depositors, Nabil Bank 10.49 percent for individuals, 8.49 percent for institutions, and Kumari Bank 10.01 percent for individuals and 7.51 percent for institutions. In the new interest rate announced to be effective from Shrawan, fifteen banks have a single-digit interest rate. In which 9.99 percent of Nepal Investment Mega Bank, 9.99 percent of personal and 7.99 percent of institutional of Global IME Bank, 9.99 percent of personal and 7.99 percent of Laxmi Sunrise Bank, 9.99 percent of personal and 7.99 percent of institutional of Nepal SBI Bank. And, Himalayan Bank is going to give 9.99 percent interest to individuals and 7.99 percent interest to institutions. Similarly, Citizens Bank has 9.99 percent for individuals and 7.99 percent for institutions, Sanima Bank has 9.52 percent for individuals and 7.52 percent for institutions, Agricultural Development Bank has 9.51 percent for individuals and 7.51 percent for institutions, and Everest Bank has 9.5 percent for individuals and 7.5 percent for institutions. Effective from Shrawan 1, Prabhu Bank will provide 9.5 percent for individuals and 7.5 percent for institutions, Siddharth Bank 9.5 percent for individuals and 7.5 percent for institutions, Machhapuchhre Bank 9 percent for individuals and 7 percent for institutions, Rastriya Banijya Bank 8.99 percent for individuals and 6.99 percent for institutional, and Nepal Bank will give 8.99 percent interest for individuals and 6.99 percent interest for institutions. The average interest rate of commercial banks in Shrawan is 9.72 percent. *The 10.98 % per annum interest rate for fixed deposit of NMB Bank is for a tenure of 10 years. Meanwhile, the tenure for 2-10 years will be able to entertain 9.75% per annum interest rate.  The earlier provision to fix the minimum tenure for six months replacing the prior limit of three months as decided and in effect since Baisakh (2080) has been suspended for fixed deposits. Now, the banks can fix the tenure for a minimum of three months as was in practice prior to Baisakh (2080).  "
2023-07-13,Nabil Bank completes 39 glorious years of its operation; establishes itself as pioneer bank in utilizing digital banking technology in several fronts,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-completes-39-glorious-years-of-its-operation-establishes-itself-as-pioneer-bank-in-utilizing-digital-banking-technology-in-several-fronts-2023-07-13,"Nabil Bank, the first private sector bank of Nepal, has observed its 39th anniversary on July 12, 2023. The bank has also been the pioneer in using the digital banking technologies in the nation as it was Nabil Bank which for the first time used the computerized banking system in the nation. Likewise, the bank for the first time brought ATM service to Nepal in 1994, began mobile banking service in 2012, used chip based International Master card in its debit cards in 2014 for the first time, used contactless payment card for the first time, and started NBank the first Neo Bank service in the nation in 2022. The bank has a deposit of Rs 378 arba, loans of Rs 340 arba, 20 lakh plus customers, 264 branches, 298 ATM outlets under its growing network. Nabil Bank, the first private sector bank of Nepal, has observed its 39th anniversary on July 12, 2023. The bank has also been the pioneer in using the digital banking technologies in the nation as it was Nabil Bank which for the first time used the computerized banking system in the nation. Likewise, the bank for the first time brought ATM service to Nepal in 1994, began mobile banking service in 2012, used chip based International Master card in its debit cards in 2014 for the first time, used contactless payment card for the first time, and started NBank the first Neo Bank service in the nation in 2022. The bank has a deposit of Rs 378 arba, loans of Rs 340 arba, 20 lakh plus customers, 264 branches, 298 ATM outlets under its growing network. Nabil Bank, the first private sector bank of Nepal, has observed its 39th anniversary on July 12, 2023. The bank has also been the pioneer in using the digital banking technologies in the nation as it was Nabil Bank which for the first time used the computerized banking system in the nation. Likewise, the bank for the first time brought ATM service to Nepal in 1994, began mobile banking service in 2012, used chip based International Master card in its debit cards in 2014 for the first time, used contactless payment card for the first time, and started NBank the first Neo Bank service in the nation in 2022. The bank has a deposit of Rs 378 arba, loans of Rs 340 arba, 20 lakh plus customers, 264 branches, 298 ATM outlets under its growing network. "
2023-07-09,Nabil Bank inaugurates 256th branch at Putalisadak as Education Hub,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inaugurates-256th-branch-at-putalisadak-as-education-hub-2023-07-09,"Nabil Bank, a leading banking institution, has inaugurated its 256th branch located at Bandipur Complex in Putalisadak. The newly opened branch is a dedicated Education Hub that provides one-stop solutions to customers requiring education loan. Ananta Poudyal, Director of Nabil Bank jointly with Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank inaugurated the branch with the presence of esteemed guests, prominent personalities, and industry experts. Speaking at the inaugural ceremony, Director Poudyal said that he is confident that Nabil's education hub will provide the best service to students, parents and counseling centers. CEO Dhungana said that this branch was opened with the aim of providing educational loans and other complete banking services from one place. He mentioned that the bank is committed to provide banking access and other enhanced services to expand the range of educational activities and travel for students to their destination countries to acquire higher education. Branch Manager Binaya Devkota said that they will provide excellent customer services to all stakeholders approaching them for any banking services. Bashu Dev Nepal, President of FECON, Hemanta Bhattarai, President of IERIN, Mahesh Babu Timilsina, President of AAERI Nepal, Prakash Pandey, President of ECAN, Prem Pandey, President of NAAER, and Santosh Pyakurel, President of NECA along with Uttam Panta, Founder of Universal Education were present during the inauguration ceremony as special guests. According to the bank, the expansion of the branch is in response to the growing demands of customers, particularly those seeking education loans. In addition to providing regular banking services, the newly opened branch aims to offer comprehensive one-stop solutions to customers requiring education loans. Nabil Bank is committed to delivering enhanced services, ensuring that students have access to a range of banking services necessary for their educational pursuits and travel to their destination country. The Education Hub at this branch will facilitate various services, including registration fee payments for IELTS/TOEFL/GRE/SAT exams, remitting VISA processing fee, remittance of tuition fees to colleges and universities, remittance of living expenses, foreign currency exchange against passport facility, and payment of overseas student health insurance. Nabil Bank is one of the leading banks of Nepal with total amount of deposits Rs. 378 billion and loan amount of Rs. 340 billion. The bank has 256 branch networks with 283 ATM machine services along with above 20 million customer base across the country. Nabil Bank, a leading banking institution, has inaugurated its 256th branch located at Bandipur Complex in Putalisadak. The newly opened branch is a dedicated Education Hub that provides one-stop solutions to customers requiring education loan. Ananta Poudyal, Director of Nabil Bank jointly with Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank inaugurated the branch with the presence of esteemed guests, prominent personalities, and industry experts. Speaking at the inaugural ceremony, Director Poudyal said that he is confident that Nabil's education hub will provide the best service to students, parents and counseling centers. CEO Dhungana said that this branch was opened with the aim of providing educational loans and other complete banking services from one place. He mentioned that the bank is committed to provide banking access and other enhanced services to expand the range of educational activities and travel for students to their destination countries to acquire higher education. Branch Manager Binaya Devkota said that they will provide excellent customer services to all stakeholders approaching them for any banking services. Bashu Dev Nepal, President of FECON, Hemanta Bhattarai, President of IERIN, Mahesh Babu Timilsina, President of AAERI Nepal, Prakash Pandey, President of ECAN, Prem Pandey, President of NAAER, and Santosh Pyakurel, President of NECA along with Uttam Panta, Founder of Universal Education were present during the inauguration ceremony as special guests. According to the bank, the expansion of the branch is in response to the growing demands of customers, particularly those seeking education loans. In addition to providing regular banking services, the newly opened branch aims to offer comprehensive one-stop solutions to customers requiring education loans. Nabil Bank is committed to delivering enhanced services, ensuring that students have access to a range of banking services necessary for their educational pursuits and travel to their destination country. The Education Hub at this branch will facilitate various services, including registration fee payments for IELTS/TOEFL/GRE/SAT exams, remitting VISA processing fee, remittance of tuition fees to colleges and universities, remittance of living expenses, foreign currency exchange against passport facility, and payment of overseas student health insurance. Nabil Bank is one of the leading banks of Nepal with total amount of deposits Rs. 378 billion and loan amount of Rs. 340 billion. The bank has 256 branch networks with 283 ATM machine services along with above 20 million customer base across the country. Nabil Bank, a leading banking institution, has inaugurated its 256th branch located at Bandipur Complex in Putalisadak. The newly opened branch is a dedicated Education Hub that provides one-stop solutions to customers requiring education loan. Ananta Poudyal, Director of Nabil Bank jointly with Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank inaugurated the branch with the presence of esteemed guests, prominent personalities, and industry experts. Speaking at the inaugural ceremony, Director Poudyal said that he is confident that Nabil's education hub will provide the best service to students, parents and counseling centers. CEO Dhungana said that this branch was opened with the aim of providing educational loans and other complete banking services from one place. He mentioned that the bank is committed to provide banking access and other enhanced services to expand the range of educational activities and travel for students to their destination countries to acquire higher education. Branch Manager Binaya Devkota said that they will provide excellent customer services to all stakeholders approaching them for any banking services. Bashu Dev Nepal, President of FECON, Hemanta Bhattarai, President of IERIN, Mahesh Babu Timilsina, President of AAERI Nepal, Prakash Pandey, President of ECAN, Prem Pandey, President of NAAER, and Santosh Pyakurel, President of NECA along with Uttam Panta, Founder of Universal Education were present during the inauguration ceremony as special guests. According to the bank, the expansion of the branch is in response to the growing demands of customers, particularly those seeking education loans. In addition to providing regular banking services, the newly opened branch aims to offer comprehensive one-stop solutions to customers requiring education loans. Nabil Bank is committed to delivering enhanced services, ensuring that students have access to a range of banking services necessary for their educational pursuits and travel to their destination country. The Education Hub at this branch will facilitate various services, including registration fee payments for IELTS/TOEFL/GRE/SAT exams, remitting VISA processing fee, remittance of tuition fees to colleges and universities, remittance of living expenses, foreign currency exchange against passport facility, and payment of overseas student health insurance. Nabil Bank is one of the leading banks of Nepal with total amount of deposits Rs. 378 billion and loan amount of Rs. 340 billion. The bank has 256 branch networks with 283 ATM machine services along with above 20 million customer base across the country. "
2023-07-04,"""9% Nabil Debenture 2087"" Added to SEBON's Pipeline; Nabil Bank to Collect Rs 3 Arba from the Issue",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/9-nabil-debenture-2087-added-to-sebons-pipeline-nabil-bank-to-collect-rs-3-arba-from-the-issue-2023-07-04,"The Securities Board of Nepal (SEBON) has added ""9% Nabil Debenture 2087"" to its pipeline. The size of the debenture is Rs 3 Arba. Nabil Bank Limited will be issuing 30 lakh units of debenture at Rs 1000 per unit. From the total 12 lakh units is for the general public and the remaining 18 lakh units are for private placement. Similarly, the debenture will yield 9% interest for a period of 7 years. Kumari Capital is the issue manager of this debenture issuance. The application was sent to SEBON on Ashad 17. ICRA Nepal has reaffirmed the issuer rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA- (pronounced ICRA NP issuer rating Double A minus) to Nabil Bank Limited (Nabil), indicating a high degree of safety regarding the timely servicing of financial obligations. Such issuers carry very low credit risk. The Securities Board of Nepal (SEBON) has added ""9% Nabil Debenture 2087"" to its pipeline. The size of the debenture is Rs 3 Arba. Nabil Bank Limited will be issuing 30 lakh units of debenture at Rs 1000 per unit. From the total 12 lakh units is for the general public and the remaining 18 lakh units are for private placement. Similarly, the debenture will yield 9% interest for a period of 7 years. Kumari Capital is the issue manager of this debenture issuance. The application was sent to SEBON on Ashad 17. ICRA Nepal has reaffirmed the issuer rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA- (pronounced ICRA NP issuer rating Double A minus) to Nabil Bank Limited (Nabil), indicating a high degree of safety regarding the timely servicing of financial obligations. Such issuers carry very low credit risk. The Securities Board of Nepal (SEBON) has added ""9% Nabil Debenture 2087"" to its pipeline. The size of the debenture is Rs 3 Arba. Nabil Bank Limited will be issuing 30 lakh units of debenture at Rs 1000 per unit. From the total 12 lakh units is for the general public and the remaining 18 lakh units are for private placement. Similarly, the debenture will yield 9% interest for a period of 7 years. Kumari Capital is the issue manager of this debenture issuance. The application was sent to SEBON on Ashad 17. ICRA Nepal has reaffirmed the issuer rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA- (pronounced ICRA NP issuer rating Double A minus) to Nabil Bank Limited (Nabil), indicating a high degree of safety regarding the timely servicing of financial obligations. Such issuers carry very low credit risk. "
2023-07-02,Nabil Bank celebrates Nabil Green Week,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-celebrates-nabil-green-week-2023-07-02,"Nabil Bank is celebrating ‘Nabil Green Week’ to mark the second anniversary of Nabil Sustainable Banking. Chairman Upendra Prasad Poudyal and Chief Executive Officer Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana of Nabil Bank jointly inaugurated the campaign by unveiling SDG goals painting at the Head Office with commitment towards sustainability. During the inaugural program, Chairman Poudyal stated that Nabil is working towards people and planet to bring prosperity in the country. According to him, the bank has strategically focused on granular business from transactional business. He further added, “We have shifted our focus to support projects that help environmental, social and economic initiatives in long run adopting sustainable measures.” Since its inception, the Nabil Sustainable Banking has been at the forefront of promoting sustainable practices, while simultaneously striving to address societal and environmental challenges. Through its dedicated efforts, the vertical has successfully achieved numerous sustainable milestones, leaving the positive impact. Congratulating the Nabil team for completing the second year of Nabil Sustainable Banking, CEO Dhungana said that this week long celebration will highlight the remarkable achievement and contributions of the vertical towards environmental and social consciousness in the banking sector. He mentioned how Nabil has been working towards sustainability by adopting sustainable practices like rainwater harvesting, paperless banking, less paper usage practices, focusing on renewable energy, promoting entrepreneurship by Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship program and others. He further added that Nabil Sustainable Banking vertical will continue to innovate and implement initiatives that promote sustainable practices, support economic growth, and protect the environment for future generations. According to the bank, one of the key accomplishments of the sustainable banking has been its focus on rural banking, aiming to extend financial services to underserved and marginalized communities. In addition, the vertical has placed a strong emphasis on financial literacy initiatives to enhance financial knowledge and skills among various segments of society. Also to onboard unbanked into banking services through Branchless banking (BLB). Recognizing the importance of sustainable development and environmental conciseness, Nabil Sustainable Banking has introduced innovative, social and eco-friendly products such as Nabil Kisan Karja and Nabil Udyamsheel Karja which cater to the specific needs for farmers and aspiring entrepreneurs. To add on Nabil recently launched Nabil Sustainable Housing Loan to encourage customers to invest in environment friendly and energy-efficient housing solutions, reducing the carbon footprint of residential buildings and contributing to a greener future. The bank plans to celebrate the green week conducting various activities during Nabil Green Week starting from Asar 15 to 21, 2080. In this week-long celebration, Nabil plans for tree plantation in Lazimpat- Panipokhari- Maharajgunj road section, wearing green attire, Tiktok campaign, exhibition to promote sustainable products and practices of partners in Nabil’s head office premises among others. Nabil Sustainable Banking was launched on Paddy Day, Asar 15, 2078 (June 29, 2021), to ensure financial literacy to those with limited financial access in rural areas, commercialize the agricultural sector, promote entrepreneurship and support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the Government of Nepal. Nabil Bank is celebrating ‘Nabil Green Week’ to mark the second anniversary of Nabil Sustainable Banking. Chairman Upendra Prasad Poudyal and Chief Executive Officer Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana of Nabil Bank jointly inaugurated the campaign by unveiling SDG goals painting at the Head Office with commitment towards sustainability. During the inaugural program, Chairman Poudyal stated that Nabil is working towards people and planet to bring prosperity in the country. According to him, the bank has strategically focused on granular business from transactional business. He further added, “We have shifted our focus to support projects that help environmental, social and economic initiatives in long run adopting sustainable measures.” Since its inception, the Nabil Sustainable Banking has been at the forefront of promoting sustainable practices, while simultaneously striving to address societal and environmental challenges. Through its dedicated efforts, the vertical has successfully achieved numerous sustainable milestones, leaving the positive impact. Congratulating the Nabil team for completing the second year of Nabil Sustainable Banking, CEO Dhungana said that this week long celebration will highlight the remarkable achievement and contributions of the vertical towards environmental and social consciousness in the banking sector. He mentioned how Nabil has been working towards sustainability by adopting sustainable practices like rainwater harvesting, paperless banking, less paper usage practices, focusing on renewable energy, promoting entrepreneurship by Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship program and others. He further added that Nabil Sustainable Banking vertical will continue to innovate and implement initiatives that promote sustainable practices, support economic growth, and protect the environment for future generations. According to the bank, one of the key accomplishments of the sustainable banking has been its focus on rural banking, aiming to extend financial services to underserved and marginalized communities. In addition, the vertical has placed a strong emphasis on financial literacy initiatives to enhance financial knowledge and skills among various segments of society. Also to onboard unbanked into banking services through Branchless banking (BLB). Recognizing the importance of sustainable development and environmental conciseness, Nabil Sustainable Banking has introduced innovative, social and eco-friendly products such as Nabil Kisan Karja and Nabil Udyamsheel Karja which cater to the specific needs for farmers and aspiring entrepreneurs. To add on Nabil recently launched Nabil Sustainable Housing Loan to encourage customers to invest in environment friendly and energy-efficient housing solutions, reducing the carbon footprint of residential buildings and contributing to a greener future. The bank plans to celebrate the green week conducting various activities during Nabil Green Week starting from Asar 15 to 21, 2080. In this week-long celebration, Nabil plans for tree plantation in Lazimpat- Panipokhari- Maharajgunj road section, wearing green attire, Tiktok campaign, exhibition to promote sustainable products and practices of partners in Nabil’s head office premises among others. Nabil Sustainable Banking was launched on Paddy Day, Asar 15, 2078 (June 29, 2021), to ensure financial literacy to those with limited financial access in rural areas, commercialize the agricultural sector, promote entrepreneurship and support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the Government of Nepal. Nabil Bank is celebrating ‘Nabil Green Week’ to mark the second anniversary of Nabil Sustainable Banking. Chairman Upendra Prasad Poudyal and Chief Executive Officer Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana of Nabil Bank jointly inaugurated the campaign by unveiling SDG goals painting at the Head Office with commitment towards sustainability. During the inaugural program, Chairman Poudyal stated that Nabil is working towards people and planet to bring prosperity in the country. According to him, the bank has strategically focused on granular business from transactional business. He further added, “We have shifted our focus to support projects that help environmental, social and economic initiatives in long run adopting sustainable measures.” Since its inception, the Nabil Sustainable Banking has been at the forefront of promoting sustainable practices, while simultaneously striving to address societal and environmental challenges. Through its dedicated efforts, the vertical has successfully achieved numerous sustainable milestones, leaving the positive impact. Congratulating the Nabil team for completing the second year of Nabil Sustainable Banking, CEO Dhungana said that this week long celebration will highlight the remarkable achievement and contributions of the vertical towards environmental and social consciousness in the banking sector. He mentioned how Nabil has been working towards sustainability by adopting sustainable practices like rainwater harvesting, paperless banking, less paper usage practices, focusing on renewable energy, promoting entrepreneurship by Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship program and others. He further added that Nabil Sustainable Banking vertical will continue to innovate and implement initiatives that promote sustainable practices, support economic growth, and protect the environment for future generations. According to the bank, one of the key accomplishments of the sustainable banking has been its focus on rural banking, aiming to extend financial services to underserved and marginalized communities. In addition, the vertical has placed a strong emphasis on financial literacy initiatives to enhance financial knowledge and skills among various segments of society. Also to onboard unbanked into banking services through Branchless banking (BLB). Recognizing the importance of sustainable development and environmental conciseness, Nabil Sustainable Banking has introduced innovative, social and eco-friendly products such as Nabil Kisan Karja and Nabil Udyamsheel Karja which cater to the specific needs for farmers and aspiring entrepreneurs. To add on Nabil recently launched Nabil Sustainable Housing Loan to encourage customers to invest in environment friendly and energy-efficient housing solutions, reducing the carbon footprint of residential buildings and contributing to a greener future. The bank plans to celebrate the green week conducting various activities during Nabil Green Week starting from Asar 15 to 21, 2080. In this week-long celebration, Nabil plans for tree plantation in Lazimpat- Panipokhari- Maharajgunj road section, wearing green attire, Tiktok campaign, exhibition to promote sustainable products and practices of partners in Nabil’s head office premises among others. Nabil Sustainable Banking was launched on Paddy Day, Asar 15, 2078 (June 29, 2021), to ensure financial literacy to those with limited financial access in rural areas, commercialize the agricultural sector, promote entrepreneurship and support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the Government of Nepal. "
2023-07-02,Nabil Bank signs Remittance agreement with Nepal Remit International; to make remittance flow easier and more convenient,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-signs-remittance-agreement-with-nepal-remit-international-to-make-remittance-flow-easier-and-more-convenient-2023-07-02,"Nabil Bank and Nepal Remit International have entered into a remittance agreement. Following the agreement, expat Nepalese in different parts of the globe can now disburse the remittance amount back with more ease from all the banking points and outlets to Nepal and remittance thus sent can now be received from all banking points of the bank including its remit agents spread across the nation along with bank accounts, as per the media statement. The agreement was signed between the remittance head of the bank Ms. Manisha Shrestha and CEO of Nepal Remit International Mr. Sagar Khanal amid a program, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 255 branches, and 283 ATM outlets under its network from which the remittance amount sent in via Nepal Remit can now be received, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank and Nepal Remit International have entered into a remittance agreement. Following the agreement, expat Nepalese in different parts of the globe can now disburse the remittance amount back with more ease from all the banking points and outlets to Nepal and remittance thus sent can now be received from all banking points of the bank including its remit agents spread across the nation along with bank accounts, as per the media statement. The agreement was signed between the remittance head of the bank Ms. Manisha Shrestha and CEO of Nepal Remit International Mr. Sagar Khanal amid a program, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 255 branches, and 283 ATM outlets under its network from which the remittance amount sent in via Nepal Remit can now be received, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank and Nepal Remit International have entered into a remittance agreement. Following the agreement, expat Nepalese in different parts of the globe can now disburse the remittance amount back with more ease from all the banking points and outlets to Nepal and remittance thus sent can now be received from all banking points of the bank including its remit agents spread across the nation along with bank accounts, as per the media statement. The agreement was signed between the remittance head of the bank Ms. Manisha Shrestha and CEO of Nepal Remit International Mr. Sagar Khanal amid a program, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 255 branches, and 283 ATM outlets under its network from which the remittance amount sent in via Nepal Remit can now be received, as per the media statement. "
2023-06-28,Nabil Bank receives Infosys Finacle Innovation Award 2023,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-receives-infosys-finacle-innovation-award-2023-2023-06-28,"Nabil Bank Limited has bagged the Platinum Award in Infosys Finacle Innovation Award 2023 under the Product Innovation Category for the Launch of nBank. Nabil Bank was selected as the winner out of over 200 nominations across 10 categories. Expressing his gratitude, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the bank, Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, stated that this award has exemplified the unwavering dedication of the bank to ‘Inspire Better Banking’ with innovative strategies.  He further said that the bank is committed to create unparalleled value for their customers, employees, investors, and the wider community. nBank, Nabil Bank’s mobile banking platform, is the first in Nepal to provide a completely digital banking experience to customers without having to fill out a single physical form or visit any branch. According to the bank, with this award, the bank has once again proved to be a leader in the Nepalese banking industry. This victory has also strengthened the bank’s resolution to create even more meaningful customer journeys and digital processes, and customers can expect new features and digital services from the bank in the days ahead. Nabil Bank Limited has bagged the Platinum Award in Infosys Finacle Innovation Award 2023 under the Product Innovation Category for the Launch of nBank. Nabil Bank was selected as the winner out of over 200 nominations across 10 categories. Expressing his gratitude, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the bank, Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, stated that this award has exemplified the unwavering dedication of the bank to ‘Inspire Better Banking’ with innovative strategies.  He further said that the bank is committed to create unparalleled value for their customers, employees, investors, and the wider community. nBank, Nabil Bank’s mobile banking platform, is the first in Nepal to provide a completely digital banking experience to customers without having to fill out a single physical form or visit any branch. According to the bank, with this award, the bank has once again proved to be a leader in the Nepalese banking industry. This victory has also strengthened the bank’s resolution to create even more meaningful customer journeys and digital processes, and customers can expect new features and digital services from the bank in the days ahead. Nabil Bank Limited has bagged the Platinum Award in Infosys Finacle Innovation Award 2023 under the Product Innovation Category for the Launch of nBank. Nabil Bank was selected as the winner out of over 200 nominations across 10 categories. Expressing his gratitude, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the bank, Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, stated that this award has exemplified the unwavering dedication of the bank to ‘Inspire Better Banking’ with innovative strategies.  He further said that the bank is committed to create unparalleled value for their customers, employees, investors, and the wider community. nBank, Nabil Bank’s mobile banking platform, is the first in Nepal to provide a completely digital banking experience to customers without having to fill out a single physical form or visit any branch. According to the bank, with this award, the bank has once again proved to be a leader in the Nepalese banking industry. This victory has also strengthened the bank’s resolution to create even more meaningful customer journeys and digital processes, and customers can expect new features and digital services from the bank in the days ahead. "
2023-06-23,Nabil launches nBank Web; Customers can now transfer Rs. 2 million per day and Rs. 5 million per month,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-launches-nbank-web-customers-can-now-transfer-rs-2-million-per-day-and-rs-5-million-per-month-2023-06-23,"Nabil Bank has launched its online banking service - nBank Web, virtually to provide a revolutionary digital banking experience. With nBank Web, customers can now transfer up to Rs. 2,000,000 per day and Rs. 5,000,000 per month from the comfort of their laptops, desktops, or tablets without visiting any branch of the bank.  According to the bank, this comprehensive suite of banking solutions provides customers with a more accessible, secure, and user-friendly way to manage their finances online. The launch event of nBank Web was conducted virtually through Nabil Bank’s and nBank’s Official Facebook pages.  Binay Kumar Regmi, Deputy Chief Executive Officer - nBank and Operations, says, “nBank Web offers an omni channel banking experience identical to that of the nBank mobile banking app with upper limit of transactions to ease managing finances online.” With the launch of the online banking service, the existing internet banking service, Nabilnet, will sunset from from 22 July 2023.  Retail customers are now required to start using nBank Web, which is fully operational. He further added, “Corporate customers currently using Nabilnet will need to register for CorporatePay before the shutdown date.” Through nBank web customers can perform an array of financial activities such as account opening, fund transfers, bill payments, view card details, open fixed deposit, and apply Loans Against Fixed Deposits. Furthermore, nRemit, Nabil Bank’s international card-based remittance service can also be accessed through nBank web. nBank Web can be accessed via the link https://nbank.nabilbank.com   Stating that nBank Web has incorporated top-notch security, DCEO Regmi says, “We are committed to provide a seamless banking experience for our valued customers. To keep customer’s information and transactions protected at all times, we introduce top-notch security through robust measures including strong encryption, two-factor authentication, auto logout feature, and SIM verification.” Nabil Bank is the pioneer of private sector banking in Nepal, dedicated to providing innovative and reliable banking solutions. With 255 branches and 283 ATMs across the country, the bank strives to meet the evolving needs of its customers, reinforcing the commitment to customer satisfaction and excellence in service. To further extend its digital footprint and align with the global shift towards digital banking, Nabil Bank has established nBank, a virtual branch within the bank. This dedicated digital unit is a testament to Nabil Bank’s commitment to provide advanced, secure and customer-centric digital banking solutions. Nabil Bank has launched its online banking service - nBank Web, virtually to provide a revolutionary digital banking experience. With nBank Web, customers can now transfer up to Rs. 2,000,000 per day and Rs. 5,000,000 per month from the comfort of their laptops, desktops, or tablets without visiting any branch of the bank.  According to the bank, this comprehensive suite of banking solutions provides customers with a more accessible, secure, and user-friendly way to manage their finances online. The launch event of nBank Web was conducted virtually through Nabil Bank’s and nBank’s Official Facebook pages.  Binay Kumar Regmi, Deputy Chief Executive Officer - nBank and Operations, says, “nBank Web offers an omni channel banking experience identical to that of the nBank mobile banking app with upper limit of transactions to ease managing finances online.” With the launch of the online banking service, the existing internet banking service, Nabilnet, will sunset from from 22 July 2023.  Retail customers are now required to start using nBank Web, which is fully operational. He further added, “Corporate customers currently using Nabilnet will need to register for CorporatePay before the shutdown date.” Through nBank web customers can perform an array of financial activities such as account opening, fund transfers, bill payments, view card details, open fixed deposit, and apply Loans Against Fixed Deposits. Furthermore, nRemit, Nabil Bank’s international card-based remittance service can also be accessed through nBank web. nBank Web can be accessed via the link https://nbank.nabilbank.com   Stating that nBank Web has incorporated top-notch security, DCEO Regmi says, “We are committed to provide a seamless banking experience for our valued customers. To keep customer’s information and transactions protected at all times, we introduce top-notch security through robust measures including strong encryption, two-factor authentication, auto logout feature, and SIM verification.” Nabil Bank is the pioneer of private sector banking in Nepal, dedicated to providing innovative and reliable banking solutions. With 255 branches and 283 ATMs across the country, the bank strives to meet the evolving needs of its customers, reinforcing the commitment to customer satisfaction and excellence in service. To further extend its digital footprint and align with the global shift towards digital banking, Nabil Bank has established nBank, a virtual branch within the bank. This dedicated digital unit is a testament to Nabil Bank’s commitment to provide advanced, secure and customer-centric digital banking solutions. Nabil Bank has launched its online banking service - nBank Web, virtually to provide a revolutionary digital banking experience. With nBank Web, customers can now transfer up to Rs. 2,000,000 per day and Rs. 5,000,000 per month from the comfort of their laptops, desktops, or tablets without visiting any branch of the bank.  According to the bank, this comprehensive suite of banking solutions provides customers with a more accessible, secure, and user-friendly way to manage their finances online. The launch event of nBank Web was conducted virtually through Nabil Bank’s and nBank’s Official Facebook pages.  Binay Kumar Regmi, Deputy Chief Executive Officer - nBank and Operations, says, “nBank Web offers an omni channel banking experience identical to that of the nBank mobile banking app with upper limit of transactions to ease managing finances online.” With the launch of the online banking service, the existing internet banking service, Nabilnet, will sunset from from 22 July 2023.  Retail customers are now required to start using nBank Web, which is fully operational. He further added, “Corporate customers currently using Nabilnet will need to register for CorporatePay before the shutdown date.” Through nBank web customers can perform an array of financial activities such as account opening, fund transfers, bill payments, view card details, open fixed deposit, and apply Loans Against Fixed Deposits. Furthermore, nRemit, Nabil Bank’s international card-based remittance service can also be accessed through nBank web. nBank Web can be accessed via the link https://nbank.nabilbank.com   Stating that nBank Web has incorporated top-notch security, DCEO Regmi says, “We are committed to provide a seamless banking experience for our valued customers. To keep customer’s information and transactions protected at all times, we introduce top-notch security through robust measures including strong encryption, two-factor authentication, auto logout feature, and SIM verification.” Nabil Bank is the pioneer of private sector banking in Nepal, dedicated to providing innovative and reliable banking solutions. With 255 branches and 283 ATMs across the country, the bank strives to meet the evolving needs of its customers, reinforcing the commitment to customer satisfaction and excellence in service. To further extend its digital footprint and align with the global shift towards digital banking, Nabil Bank has established nBank, a virtual branch within the bank. This dedicated digital unit is a testament to Nabil Bank’s commitment to provide advanced, secure and customer-centric digital banking solutions. "
2023-06-21,Nabil Bank signs agreement with Radisson Hotel; MoU to enable bank’s customers to receive discount of 10% at Lazimpat based hotel and TIA based lounge,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-signs-agreement-with-radisson-hotel-mou-to-enable-banks-customers-to-receive-discount-of-10-at-lazimpat-based-hotel-and-tia-based-lounge-2023-06-21,"Nabil Bank Ltd has entered into an agreement with Radisson Hotel in Kathmandu. The MoU was signed with the hotel on Asar 5, 2080 between the two institutions. Following the agreement, customers of the bank using its cards will get an attractive discount of 10% while availing of different services at the Lazimpat-based hotel and TIA-based lounge of the hotel chain, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 255 branches, and 18 extension counters under its network, as per the media statement.     Nabil Bank Ltd has entered into an agreement with Radisson Hotel in Kathmandu. The MoU was signed with the hotel on Asar 5, 2080 between the two institutions. Following the agreement, customers of the bank using its cards will get an attractive discount of 10% while availing of different services at the Lazimpat-based hotel and TIA-based lounge of the hotel chain, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 255 branches, and 18 extension counters under its network, as per the media statement.     Nabil Bank Ltd has entered into an agreement with Radisson Hotel in Kathmandu. The MoU was signed with the hotel on Asar 5, 2080 between the two institutions. Following the agreement, customers of the bank using its cards will get an attractive discount of 10% while availing of different services at the Lazimpat-based hotel and TIA-based lounge of the hotel chain, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 255 branches, and 18 extension counters under its network, as per the media statement.     "
2023-06-15,Commercial Banks Update Interest Rates For The Month of Ashad; SCB Reduces Its Fixed Deposit Rates,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-update-interest-rates-for-the-month-of-ashad-scb-reduces-its-fixed-deposit-rates-2023-06-15,"Commercial Banks have updated their interest rates profile for the month of Ashad. The update will be effective from tomorrow, i.e. Ashad 01. Most commercial banks provided a 5.40%-7.40% interest rate p.a. for depositors on savings in Ashad. Meanwhile, individuals get a maximum interest payment of 9.99% p.a. on fixed deposits (FD). On the other hand, for institutions, it is a 7.99% interest payment p.a. on fixed deposits. With the exception of Standard Chartered Bank (SCB), all banks' fixed deposit rates remain unchanged. For institutional FDs, SCB has cut its rates to 6.99%, while for individual FDs, the rate is currently 8.99%. The saving rate stands at 6.35% while the base rate is at 9.35%. In a comparable way, Rastriya Banijya Bank's base rate stands at 8.44% as of Baisakh end which is the lowest among all 21 commercial banks. Conversely, Machhapuchchhre Bank Limited (MBL) has the highest average quarterly base rate ending Baisakh 2080 among all commercial banks, with a rate of 11.13%. However, the normal savings account at MBL offers a yield of 5.40%-7.40%. On the other hand, Nepal SBI Bank Limited provides a slightly higher interest rate for its all savings account at 6.80%. While MBL has a higher base interest rate, the savings account with Nepal SBI Bank Limited offers a better return on normal savings.    Commercial Banks have updated their interest rates profile for the month of Ashad. The update will be effective from tomorrow, i.e. Ashad 01. Most commercial banks provided a 5.40%-7.40% interest rate p.a. for depositors on savings in Ashad. Meanwhile, individuals get a maximum interest payment of 9.99% p.a. on fixed deposits (FD). On the other hand, for institutions, it is a 7.99% interest payment p.a. on fixed deposits. With the exception of Standard Chartered Bank (SCB), all banks' fixed deposit rates remain unchanged. For institutional FDs, SCB has cut its rates to 6.99%, while for individual FDs, the rate is currently 8.99%. The saving rate stands at 6.35% while the base rate is at 9.35%. In a comparable way, Rastriya Banijya Bank's base rate stands at 8.44% as of Baisakh end which is the lowest among all 21 commercial banks. Conversely, Machhapuchchhre Bank Limited (MBL) has the highest average quarterly base rate ending Baisakh 2080 among all commercial banks, with a rate of 11.13%. However, the normal savings account at MBL offers a yield of 5.40%-7.40%. On the other hand, Nepal SBI Bank Limited provides a slightly higher interest rate for its all savings account at 6.80%. While MBL has a higher base interest rate, the savings account with Nepal SBI Bank Limited offers a better return on normal savings.    Commercial Banks have updated their interest rates profile for the month of Ashad. The update will be effective from tomorrow, i.e. Ashad 01. Most commercial banks provided a 5.40%-7.40% interest rate p.a. for depositors on savings in Ashad. Meanwhile, individuals get a maximum interest payment of 9.99% p.a. on fixed deposits (FD). On the other hand, for institutions, it is a 7.99% interest payment p.a. on fixed deposits. With the exception of Standard Chartered Bank (SCB), all banks' fixed deposit rates remain unchanged. For institutional FDs, SCB has cut its rates to 6.99%, while for individual FDs, the rate is currently 8.99%. The saving rate stands at 6.35% while the base rate is at 9.35%. In a comparable way, Rastriya Banijya Bank's base rate stands at 8.44% as of Baisakh end which is the lowest among all 21 commercial banks. Conversely, Machhapuchchhre Bank Limited (MBL) has the highest average quarterly base rate ending Baisakh 2080 among all commercial banks, with a rate of 11.13%. However, the normal savings account at MBL offers a yield of 5.40%-7.40%. On the other hand, Nepal SBI Bank Limited provides a slightly higher interest rate for its all savings account at 6.80%. While MBL has a higher base interest rate, the savings account with Nepal SBI Bank Limited offers a better return on normal savings.    "
2023-06-15,Nabil Bank To Float 3 Arba worth Debenture; Appoints Kumari Capital As Issue Manager,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-float-3-arba-worth-debenture-appoints-kumari-capital-as-issue-manager-2023-06-15,Nabil Bank has appointed Kumari Capital as the issue manager to float its Rs 3 Arba worth Nabil Debenture 2087 to the general public as well as institutional investors. The MoU was signed between CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana and the Acting CEO of the merchant bank Mr. Puspa Sharma amid a program. The bank currently has 255 branches and 18 extension counters across the nation. Nabil Bank has appointed Kumari Capital as the issue manager to float its Rs 3 Arba worth Nabil Debenture 2087 to the general public as well as institutional investors. The MoU was signed between CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana and the Acting CEO of the merchant bank Mr. Puspa Sharma amid a program. The bank currently has 255 branches and 18 extension counters across the nation. Nabil Bank has appointed Kumari Capital as the issue manager to float its Rs 3 Arba worth Nabil Debenture 2087 to the general public as well as institutional investors. The MoU was signed between CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana and the Acting CEO of the merchant bank Mr. Puspa Sharma amid a program. The bank currently has 255 branches and 18 extension counters across the nation. 
2023-06-13,Nabil Bank inks MoU with Asian Paints Nepal; merchants and dealers to acquire affordable and convenient loan service,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inks-mou-with-asian-paints-nepal-merchants-and-dealers-to-acquire-affordable-and-convenient-loan-service-2023-06-13,"Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Asian Paints Nepal for channel financing. The MoU was signed between the CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana and the Country Director of Asian Paints Nepal Mr. Gopal Krishnan G. amid a program, as per the media statement. With this agreement, merchants and dealers associated with Asian Paints can now acquire easy loan service with convenient collateral from Nabil Bank for the expansion of their business Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Asian Paints Nepal for channel financing. The MoU was signed between the CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana and the Country Director of Asian Paints Nepal Mr. Gopal Krishnan G. amid a program, as per the media statement. With this agreement, merchants and dealers associated with Asian Paints can now acquire easy loan service with convenient collateral from Nabil Bank for the expansion of their business Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Asian Paints Nepal for channel financing. The MoU was signed between the CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana and the Country Director of Asian Paints Nepal Mr. Gopal Krishnan G. amid a program, as per the media statement. With this agreement, merchants and dealers associated with Asian Paints can now acquire easy loan service with convenient collateral from Nabil Bank for the expansion of their business "
2023-06-11,Nabil Bank signs agreement with Landmark Hotel and Resort; MoU to enable bank’s customers to receive special discount of 15% at different hotels and spa services under its network,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-signs-agreement-with-landmark-hotel-and-resort-mou-to-enable-banks-customers-to-receive-special-discount-of-15-at-different-hotels-and-spa-services-under-its-network-2023-06-11,"Nabil Bank Ltd has entered into an agreement with Landmark Hotel, Resort and Spa. The MoU was signed with the hotel on Jestha 26, 2080 between the two institutions. Following the agreement, customers of the bank will get an attractive discount of 10% while availing different fooding services and 15% for lodging services at the hotel’s different properties located in Kathmandu, Pokhara and Chitwan, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 255 branches under its service. Nabil Bank Ltd has entered into an agreement with Landmark Hotel, Resort and Spa. The MoU was signed with the hotel on Jestha 26, 2080 between the two institutions. Following the agreement, customers of the bank will get an attractive discount of 10% while availing different fooding services and 15% for lodging services at the hotel’s different properties located in Kathmandu, Pokhara and Chitwan, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 255 branches under its service. Nabil Bank Ltd has entered into an agreement with Landmark Hotel, Resort and Spa. The MoU was signed with the hotel on Jestha 26, 2080 between the two institutions. Following the agreement, customers of the bank will get an attractive discount of 10% while availing different fooding services and 15% for lodging services at the hotel’s different properties located in Kathmandu, Pokhara and Chitwan, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 255 branches under its service. "
2023-06-05,Nabil Bank unveils Nabil Sustainable home loan scheme; to extend affordable home loan facility to environment-friendly homes,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-unveils-nabil-sustainable-home-loan-scheme-to-extend-affordable-home-loan-facility-to-environment-friendly-homes-2023-06-05,"Nabil Bank has launched Nabil Sustainable Home Loan scheme amid the celebration of World Environment Day. The new scheme was unveiled by the chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudel. Under this new scheme, the bank shall provide affordable home loans to those who are interested to construct their homes with environment-friendly materials, as per the media statement. One will receive this loan with just a 1% premium added to the base rate. For those who want a fixed interest rate, one can have this loan for seven years with a 10.49% fixed interest rate. For the repayment schedule beyond seven years, then one will have a 1.5% premium added to the base rate. One can also find attractive discounts on the service charge while can also avail of free credit cards up to Rs 3 lakh for a year, as per the media statement. One can also enjoy a convenient EMI service for up to 20 years where the credit amount has to be between seven lakhs to five crores. For being eligible for this scheme, one needs to have a sustainable rainwater harvesting mechanism, solar heating system, efficient energy equipment like LED bulbs and induction stoves, solid waste management system and so on installed in their home, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has launched Nabil Sustainable Home Loan scheme amid the celebration of World Environment Day. The new scheme was unveiled by the chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudel. Under this new scheme, the bank shall provide affordable home loans to those who are interested to construct their homes with environment-friendly materials, as per the media statement. One will receive this loan with just a 1% premium added to the base rate. For those who want a fixed interest rate, one can have this loan for seven years with a 10.49% fixed interest rate. For the repayment schedule beyond seven years, then one will have a 1.5% premium added to the base rate. One can also find attractive discounts on the service charge while can also avail of free credit cards up to Rs 3 lakh for a year, as per the media statement. One can also enjoy a convenient EMI service for up to 20 years where the credit amount has to be between seven lakhs to five crores. For being eligible for this scheme, one needs to have a sustainable rainwater harvesting mechanism, solar heating system, efficient energy equipment like LED bulbs and induction stoves, solid waste management system and so on installed in their home, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has launched Nabil Sustainable Home Loan scheme amid the celebration of World Environment Day. The new scheme was unveiled by the chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudel. Under this new scheme, the bank shall provide affordable home loans to those who are interested to construct their homes with environment-friendly materials, as per the media statement. One will receive this loan with just a 1% premium added to the base rate. For those who want a fixed interest rate, one can have this loan for seven years with a 10.49% fixed interest rate. For the repayment schedule beyond seven years, then one will have a 1.5% premium added to the base rate. One can also find attractive discounts on the service charge while can also avail of free credit cards up to Rs 3 lakh for a year, as per the media statement. One can also enjoy a convenient EMI service for up to 20 years where the credit amount has to be between seven lakhs to five crores. For being eligible for this scheme, one needs to have a sustainable rainwater harvesting mechanism, solar heating system, efficient energy equipment like LED bulbs and induction stoves, solid waste management system and so on installed in their home, as per the media statement. "
2023-06-02,Nabil Bank surges with bang; brings into operation 38 new branches on a single day across the nation,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-surges-with-bang-brings-into-operation-38-new-branches-on-a-single-day-across-the-nation-2023-06-02,"Nabil Bank has inaugurated and brought into operation 38 new branches on a single day on Jestha 18, 2080. The bank has expanded with 13 branches in Bagmati province, 1 in Koshi, 8 in Madhesh, 3 in Gandaki, 10 in Lumbini, 1 in Karnali and 2 in Sudurpashim province, as per the media statement. The latest facilities were jointly inaugurated by chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, BoD Mr. Nirvana Chaudhary, BoD Ms. Asha Rana Adhikary, BoDs Mr. Ananta Poudyal and Mr. Pravin Tibrewala, as per the media statement. The newly inaugurated branches are as follows Dadeldhura Nabil Bank has inaugurated and brought into operation 38 new branches on a single day on Jestha 18, 2080. The bank has expanded with 13 branches in Bagmati province, 1 in Koshi, 8 in Madhesh, 3 in Gandaki, 10 in Lumbini, 1 in Karnali and 2 in Sudurpashim province, as per the media statement. The latest facilities were jointly inaugurated by chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, BoD Mr. Nirvana Chaudhary, BoD Ms. Asha Rana Adhikary, BoDs Mr. Ananta Poudyal and Mr. Pravin Tibrewala, as per the media statement. The newly inaugurated branches are as follows Dadeldhura Nabil Bank has inaugurated and brought into operation 38 new branches on a single day on Jestha 18, 2080. The bank has expanded with 13 branches in Bagmati province, 1 in Koshi, 8 in Madhesh, 3 in Gandaki, 10 in Lumbini, 1 in Karnali and 2 in Sudurpashim province, as per the media statement. The latest facilities were jointly inaugurated by chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, BoD Mr. Nirvana Chaudhary, BoD Ms. Asha Rana Adhikary, BoDs Mr. Ananta Poudyal and Mr. Pravin Tibrewala, as per the media statement. The newly inaugurated branches are as follows Dadeldhura "
2023-05-11,Purvanchal University lays foundation for auditorium and Nabil Bank branch,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/purvanchal-university-lays-foundation-for-auditorium-and-nabil-bank-branch-2023-05-11,"Nabil Bank Limited is going to establish the branch office within the premises of Purvanchal University along with auditorium hall. Education, Science, and Technology Minister Ashok Kumar Rai laid the foundation stone for the 750-seater auditorium hall and Nabil Bank's branch office in Gothgaun. Nabil Bank will set up the branch office within three months with the aim of providing modern banking services to the university's students, teachers, and staff, as well as to the residents of Gothgaun. Additionally, it has also supported the construction of the hall for the university. During the inauguration program, Minister and Purvanchal University's Vice-Chancellor Rai expressed his happiness over the fact that the bank had undertaken this project under its corporate social responsibility. ""Such collaborations not only benefit the bank but also contribute to the society,"" said Minister Rai. Nabil Bank's Chief Executive Officer Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana stated that the bank is committed to contributing to the development of the education sector in Nepal. ""We believe that this collaboration between the bank and the university will help promote access to modern banking services and education,"" he added."" Nabil Bank Limited is going to establish the branch office within the premises of Purvanchal University along with auditorium hall. Education, Science, and Technology Minister Ashok Kumar Rai laid the foundation stone for the 750-seater auditorium hall and Nabil Bank's branch office in Gothgaun. Nabil Bank will set up the branch office within three months with the aim of providing modern banking services to the university's students, teachers, and staff, as well as to the residents of Gothgaun. Additionally, it has also supported the construction of the hall for the university. During the inauguration program, Minister and Purvanchal University's Vice-Chancellor Rai expressed his happiness over the fact that the bank had undertaken this project under its corporate social responsibility. ""Such collaborations not only benefit the bank but also contribute to the society,"" said Minister Rai. Nabil Bank's Chief Executive Officer Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana stated that the bank is committed to contributing to the development of the education sector in Nepal. ""We believe that this collaboration between the bank and the university will help promote access to modern banking services and education,"" he added."" Nabil Bank Limited is going to establish the branch office within the premises of Purvanchal University along with auditorium hall. Education, Science, and Technology Minister Ashok Kumar Rai laid the foundation stone for the 750-seater auditorium hall and Nabil Bank's branch office in Gothgaun. Nabil Bank will set up the branch office within three months with the aim of providing modern banking services to the university's students, teachers, and staff, as well as to the residents of Gothgaun. Additionally, it has also supported the construction of the hall for the university. During the inauguration program, Minister and Purvanchal University's Vice-Chancellor Rai expressed his happiness over the fact that the bank had undertaken this project under its corporate social responsibility. ""Such collaborations not only benefit the bank but also contribute to the society,"" said Minister Rai. Nabil Bank's Chief Executive Officer Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana stated that the bank is committed to contributing to the development of the education sector in Nepal. ""We believe that this collaboration between the bank and the university will help promote access to modern banking services and education,"" he added."" "
2023-05-08,NABIL Bank Introduces 'Nabil Dhukka Bachat Khata' Extending Attractive Offers,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-introduces-nabil-dhukka-bachat-khata-extending-attractive-offers-2023-05-08,"NABIL Bank, for the first time has introduced Nabil Dhukka Bachat Khata that promises to provide attractive facilities and discounts to it's subscribers. According to the commercial bank, service-seekers of the pioneer account can claim medical insurance upto NRs. 1 lakh, GPA worth ten lakh and critical illness worth three lakh seventy five thousand. This account also provides free services such as debit card, credit card, nBank (Mobile Banking), C-ASBA, DMAT, Meroshare and off-us ATM fee up to 5 times a month. Customer of this account can also enjoy special facility of Nabil Fone Loan.Furthermore, customers can also enjoy locker facility free for first year and can vail 50% discount from second year onwards. This saving account also provides the highest interest rate of 7.40% and all a customer needs to do to relish above mentioned benefit is to open Nabil Dhukka Bachat Khata with minimum balance of NPR 1,00,000.00.  NABIL Bank, for the first time has introduced Nabil Dhukka Bachat Khata that promises to provide attractive facilities and discounts to it's subscribers. According to the commercial bank, service-seekers of the pioneer account can claim medical insurance upto NRs. 1 lakh, GPA worth ten lakh and critical illness worth three lakh seventy five thousand. This account also provides free services such as debit card, credit card, nBank (Mobile Banking), C-ASBA, DMAT, Meroshare and off-us ATM fee up to 5 times a month. Customer of this account can also enjoy special facility of Nabil Fone Loan.Furthermore, customers can also enjoy locker facility free for first year and can vail 50% discount from second year onwards. This saving account also provides the highest interest rate of 7.40% and all a customer needs to do to relish above mentioned benefit is to open Nabil Dhukka Bachat Khata with minimum balance of NPR 1,00,000.00.  NABIL Bank, for the first time has introduced Nabil Dhukka Bachat Khata that promises to provide attractive facilities and discounts to it's subscribers. According to the commercial bank, service-seekers of the pioneer account can claim medical insurance upto NRs. 1 lakh, GPA worth ten lakh and critical illness worth three lakh seventy five thousand. This account also provides free services such as debit card, credit card, nBank (Mobile Banking), C-ASBA, DMAT, Meroshare and off-us ATM fee up to 5 times a month. Customer of this account can also enjoy special facility of Nabil Fone Loan.Furthermore, customers can also enjoy locker facility free for first year and can vail 50% discount from second year onwards. This saving account also provides the highest interest rate of 7.40% and all a customer needs to do to relish above mentioned benefit is to open Nabil Dhukka Bachat Khata with minimum balance of NPR 1,00,000.00.  "
2023-05-02,Nabil Bank provides vocational development training to 57 youths in Chhatra gaupalika of Terhathum,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-provides-vocational-development-training-to-57-youths-in-chhatra-gaupalika-of-terhathum-2023-05-02,"Nabil Bank has partnered with National Youth Council and Chhatra gaupalika in Terhathum to provide vocational development training to the youths in the local unit.  The seven-day training that took place between Baisakh 10 to 16, 2080 had 57 participants and was addressed by SME, microfinance, and Digo Banking head of the bank Mr. Niroj Kumar Basnet along with other trainers, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has partnered with National Youth Council and Chhatra gaupalika in Terhathum to provide vocational development training to the youths in the local unit.  The seven-day training that took place between Baisakh 10 to 16, 2080 had 57 participants and was addressed by SME, microfinance, and Digo Banking head of the bank Mr. Niroj Kumar Basnet along with other trainers, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has partnered with National Youth Council and Chhatra gaupalika in Terhathum to provide vocational development training to the youths in the local unit.  The seven-day training that took place between Baisakh 10 to 16, 2080 had 57 participants and was addressed by SME, microfinance, and Digo Banking head of the bank Mr. Niroj Kumar Basnet along with other trainers, as per the media statement. "
2023-04-30,"CBFIN Determined to Use Legal Authority for Protection and Right of Depositors, Borrowers & Stakeholders of  BFIs",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/cbfin-determined-to-use-legal-authority-for-protection-and-right-of-depositors-borrowers-stakeholders-of-bfis-2023-04-30,"Confederation of Commercial Banks and Financial Institutions Nepal (CBFIN) has stated that the CBFIN is fully united, committed, and determined to use any legal authority provided by the current law and take any drastic measures for the protection of the rights and interests of the depositors, borrowers, and other stakeholders of the Bank and Financial Institutions. The Confederation claims that this decision was made as a result of the ongoing attacks by various people, companies, and groups on banks and financial institutions, as well as their assets, credit, and staff, as well as the rise in criminal activities. According to the Confederation, from this point forward, any individual, group, or association acting in the name of a bank financial institution, including its employees, will be prohibited from doing anything that could jeopardize the institution's reputation, honor, or property, obstruct banking operations, or confuse the public about banks and financial institutions. Additionally, the Confederation has made the decision to report and file a complaint with the appropriate agency for action to be taken against such activities to the extent permitted by the applicable law.  Confederation of Commercial Banks and Financial Institutions Nepal (CBFIN) has stated that the CBFIN is fully united, committed, and determined to use any legal authority provided by the current law and take any drastic measures for the protection of the rights and interests of the depositors, borrowers, and other stakeholders of the Bank and Financial Institutions. The Confederation claims that this decision was made as a result of the ongoing attacks by various people, companies, and groups on banks and financial institutions, as well as their assets, credit, and staff, as well as the rise in criminal activities. According to the Confederation, from this point forward, any individual, group, or association acting in the name of a bank financial institution, including its employees, will be prohibited from doing anything that could jeopardize the institution's reputation, honor, or property, obstruct banking operations, or confuse the public about banks and financial institutions. Additionally, the Confederation has made the decision to report and file a complaint with the appropriate agency for action to be taken against such activities to the extent permitted by the applicable law.  Confederation of Commercial Banks and Financial Institutions Nepal (CBFIN) has stated that the CBFIN is fully united, committed, and determined to use any legal authority provided by the current law and take any drastic measures for the protection of the rights and interests of the depositors, borrowers, and other stakeholders of the Bank and Financial Institutions. The Confederation claims that this decision was made as a result of the ongoing attacks by various people, companies, and groups on banks and financial institutions, as well as their assets, credit, and staff, as well as the rise in criminal activities. According to the Confederation, from this point forward, any individual, group, or association acting in the name of a bank financial institution, including its employees, will be prohibited from doing anything that could jeopardize the institution's reputation, honor, or property, obstruct banking operations, or confuse the public about banks and financial institutions. Additionally, the Confederation has made the decision to report and file a complaint with the appropriate agency for action to be taken against such activities to the extent permitted by the applicable law.  "
2023-04-27,Evolution of Non-Performing Loans  (NPL) in Nepal; Addressing the Current Situation of Growing NPL,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/evolution-of-non-performing-loans-npl-in-nepal-addressing-the-current-situation-of-growing-npl-2023-04-27," The Banking sector is considered an important component of the economy and sound financial health of these institutions is imperative to support the economic growth of the economy. However, due to various endogenous factors as well as exogenous shocks, there can be disequilibria in the banking system and normally the outcome is first and foremost reflected in the rising NPLs of the BFIs. Previous studies pertaining to the Nepalese context, have highlighted the various factors that have affected NPLs in the past. There are various interesting findings from these past studies, which hint at the pressure of persistent levels of high inflation on nominal interest rates, and as these interest rates follow inflation rates, increasing cost of borrowed funds put pressure on the financial health of the borrowers and ultimately, they start to surrender which in turn leads to rising NPLs. From the above figure, we can see that normally, the NPLs have come down in the final quarter of the fiscal year which is quite in line with the normal banking practice where banks are focused much more on the recovery activities in the third and fourth quarter. However, there are two instances in the above graph, where we can see that the final quarter of the fiscal year has witnessed higher NPLs and both these instances have one thing in common and that is these are events that were caused by exogenous shock. I leave my readers with the task of guessing these two events and the period where such anomalies were observed.   The time series of the Non-performing loans as seen above tells us that non-performing loans in general and that of the government banks have come down substantially in the past decade. NRB’s strong supervision and implementation of different phases of BASEL to ensure that BFIs are well equipped to deal with the burgeoning risk as the BFIs increase their access to the different parts of the country could be some of the major reasons for downward trend in the NPLs. NPLs are considered to be one of the major indicators to gauge the health of BFIs and NPLs above 1% are considered to be preliminary signals of ominous events to follow. BFIs operate as an intermediary between the supply and demand of loanable funds. For customers to have blind faith in the banking system, it is quite essential that the BFIs follow different protocols which are already in place and demanded by NRB. Furthermore, to ensure such faith, BFIs need to make sure that NPLs are kept below the 1% level. However, due to the nature of the business, banks and financial institutions do tend to have high NPLs in times of economic recession and then seem to recover these NPLs once the period of the slump is over. The history of over 13 years do suggest that the total NPL levels of commercial banks in Nepal till date haven’t been able to stay below the 1% level. Also, the highlighted part in the above graph suggests that NPLs by their nature do tend to decline once the market interest rates fall.   Although history may repeat itself, there are some distinct differences in the current situation compared to the past, i.e. credit to GDP ratio has reached an alarming figure of around 100.8% which is quite high compared to the levels of 46.42% (in the year 2011) more than a decade earlier. There seems to be very little room for credit to grow with exacerbation in the growth of deposits and market currently hit by stagflation. Furthermore, the condition of real estate also seems to have hit its ceiling with prices at an alarmingly high level with transactions declining at such prices. As the majority of the loans issued by BFIs are collateral-backed, stagnation in the real estate sector will only add to the plight of the banking sector. If history does repeat itself, we can see that the fourth quarter will witness improvement in the non-performing loans figures which is normally backed by strong recovery actions by the BFIs to ensure good profitability for their shareholders. Furthermore, the situation is also supported by declining interest rates, which as seen in the graph above, will lead to an ease in the cost of funds of borrowers and their ability to pay back the loans. However, the current predicament seems to be a culmination of the expansionary policies issued in support of the COVID period which led to excessive bubbles in the stock as well as real estate market which put in undue pressure on the external sector of the Nepalese economy. A lot of the recovery in the non-performing loans does seem to rest on how the real estate sector will recover as the overall economy heads toward recovery. Addressing the current situation of growing Nonperforming loans seems to be imperative on the part of the policymakers as non-performing loans issue that are left unaddressed tend to be sticky and this, in turn, discourages further credit creation process and extends the overall recession phase which seems to be quite detrimental for the overall economy. Raunak Karanjit M.Sc. Economics, M.Phil System Dynamics  The Banking sector is considered an important component of the economy and sound financial health of these institutions is imperative to support the economic growth of the economy. However, due to various endogenous factors as well as exogenous shocks, there can be disequilibria in the banking system and normally the outcome is first and foremost reflected in the rising NPLs of the BFIs. Previous studies pertaining to the Nepalese context, have highlighted the various factors that have affected NPLs in the past. There are various interesting findings from these past studies, which hint at the pressure of persistent levels of high inflation on nominal interest rates, and as these interest rates follow inflation rates, increasing cost of borrowed funds put pressure on the financial health of the borrowers and ultimately, they start to surrender which in turn leads to rising NPLs. From the above figure, we can see that normally, the NPLs have come down in the final quarter of the fiscal year which is quite in line with the normal banking practice where banks are focused much more on the recovery activities in the third and fourth quarter. However, there are two instances in the above graph, where we can see that the final quarter of the fiscal year has witnessed higher NPLs and both these instances have one thing in common and that is these are events that were caused by exogenous shock. I leave my readers with the task of guessing these two events and the period where such anomalies were observed.   The time series of the Non-performing loans as seen above tells us that non-performing loans in general and that of the government banks have come down substantially in the past decade. NRB’s strong supervision and implementation of different phases of BASEL to ensure that BFIs are well equipped to deal with the burgeoning risk as the BFIs increase their access to the different parts of the country could be some of the major reasons for downward trend in the NPLs. NPLs are considered to be one of the major indicators to gauge the health of BFIs and NPLs above 1% are considered to be preliminary signals of ominous events to follow. BFIs operate as an intermediary between the supply and demand of loanable funds. For customers to have blind faith in the banking system, it is quite essential that the BFIs follow different protocols which are already in place and demanded by NRB. Furthermore, to ensure such faith, BFIs need to make sure that NPLs are kept below the 1% level. However, due to the nature of the business, banks and financial institutions do tend to have high NPLs in times of economic recession and then seem to recover these NPLs once the period of the slump is over. The history of over 13 years do suggest that the total NPL levels of commercial banks in Nepal till date haven’t been able to stay below the 1% level. Also, the highlighted part in the above graph suggests that NPLs by their nature do tend to decline once the market interest rates fall.   Although history may repeat itself, there are some distinct differences in the current situation compared to the past, i.e. credit to GDP ratio has reached an alarming figure of around 100.8% which is quite high compared to the levels of 46.42% (in the year 2011) more than a decade earlier. There seems to be very little room for credit to grow with exacerbation in the growth of deposits and market currently hit by stagflation. Furthermore, the condition of real estate also seems to have hit its ceiling with prices at an alarmingly high level with transactions declining at such prices. As the majority of the loans issued by BFIs are collateral-backed, stagnation in the real estate sector will only add to the plight of the banking sector. If history does repeat itself, we can see that the fourth quarter will witness improvement in the non-performing loans figures which is normally backed by strong recovery actions by the BFIs to ensure good profitability for their shareholders. Furthermore, the situation is also supported by declining interest rates, which as seen in the graph above, will lead to an ease in the cost of funds of borrowers and their ability to pay back the loans. However, the current predicament seems to be a culmination of the expansionary policies issued in support of the COVID period which led to excessive bubbles in the stock as well as real estate market which put in undue pressure on the external sector of the Nepalese economy. A lot of the recovery in the non-performing loans does seem to rest on how the real estate sector will recover as the overall economy heads toward recovery. Addressing the current situation of growing Nonperforming loans seems to be imperative on the part of the policymakers as non-performing loans issue that are left unaddressed tend to be sticky and this, in turn, discourages further credit creation process and extends the overall recession phase which seems to be quite detrimental for the overall economy. Raunak Karanjit M.Sc. Economics, M.Phil System Dynamics  The Banking sector is considered an important component of the economy and sound financial health of these institutions is imperative to support the economic growth of the economy. However, due to various endogenous factors as well as exogenous shocks, there can be disequilibria in the banking system and normally the outcome is first and foremost reflected in the rising NPLs of the BFIs. Previous studies pertaining to the Nepalese context, have highlighted the various factors that have affected NPLs in the past. There are various interesting findings from these past studies, which hint at the pressure of persistent levels of high inflation on nominal interest rates, and as these interest rates follow inflation rates, increasing cost of borrowed funds put pressure on the financial health of the borrowers and ultimately, they start to surrender which in turn leads to rising NPLs. From the above figure, we can see that normally, the NPLs have come down in the final quarter of the fiscal year which is quite in line with the normal banking practice where banks are focused much more on the recovery activities in the third and fourth quarter. However, there are two instances in the above graph, where we can see that the final quarter of the fiscal year has witnessed higher NPLs and both these instances have one thing in common and that is these are events that were caused by exogenous shock. I leave my readers with the task of guessing these two events and the period where such anomalies were observed.   The time series of the Non-performing loans as seen above tells us that non-performing loans in general and that of the government banks have come down substantially in the past decade. NRB’s strong supervision and implementation of different phases of BASEL to ensure that BFIs are well equipped to deal with the burgeoning risk as the BFIs increase their access to the different parts of the country could be some of the major reasons for downward trend in the NPLs. NPLs are considered to be one of the major indicators to gauge the health of BFIs and NPLs above 1% are considered to be preliminary signals of ominous events to follow. BFIs operate as an intermediary between the supply and demand of loanable funds. For customers to have blind faith in the banking system, it is quite essential that the BFIs follow different protocols which are already in place and demanded by NRB. Furthermore, to ensure such faith, BFIs need to make sure that NPLs are kept below the 1% level. However, due to the nature of the business, banks and financial institutions do tend to have high NPLs in times of economic recession and then seem to recover these NPLs once the period of the slump is over. The history of over 13 years do suggest that the total NPL levels of commercial banks in Nepal till date haven’t been able to stay below the 1% level. Also, the highlighted part in the above graph suggests that NPLs by their nature do tend to decline once the market interest rates fall.   Although history may repeat itself, there are some distinct differences in the current situation compared to the past, i.e. credit to GDP ratio has reached an alarming figure of around 100.8% which is quite high compared to the levels of 46.42% (in the year 2011) more than a decade earlier. There seems to be very little room for credit to grow with exacerbation in the growth of deposits and market currently hit by stagflation. Furthermore, the condition of real estate also seems to have hit its ceiling with prices at an alarmingly high level with transactions declining at such prices. As the majority of the loans issued by BFIs are collateral-backed, stagnation in the real estate sector will only add to the plight of the banking sector. If history does repeat itself, we can see that the fourth quarter will witness improvement in the non-performing loans figures which is normally backed by strong recovery actions by the BFIs to ensure good profitability for their shareholders. Furthermore, the situation is also supported by declining interest rates, which as seen in the graph above, will lead to an ease in the cost of funds of borrowers and their ability to pay back the loans. However, the current predicament seems to be a culmination of the expansionary policies issued in support of the COVID period which led to excessive bubbles in the stock as well as real estate market which put in undue pressure on the external sector of the Nepalese economy. A lot of the recovery in the non-performing loans does seem to rest on how the real estate sector will recover as the overall economy heads toward recovery. Addressing the current situation of growing Nonperforming loans seems to be imperative on the part of the policymakers as non-performing loans issue that are left unaddressed tend to be sticky and this, in turn, discourages further credit creation process and extends the overall recession phase which seems to be quite detrimental for the overall economy. Raunak Karanjit M.Sc. Economics, M.Phil System Dynamics "
2023-04-25,Nabil launches lifetime free credit card for the first time,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-launches-lifetime-free-credit-card-for-the-first-time-2023-04-25,"Nabil Bank, a leading financial services provider, has announced the launch of a new lifetime free credit card for the first time in Nepal to its customers. The new credit card is designed to provide cardholders with a host of benefits, without any annual fees or hidden charges. The Nabil Lifetime Free Credit Card offers a range of benefits, including no annual fee, no joining fee and no renewal fee. According to the bank, customers can enjoy the convenience of making purchases, paying bills, and withdrawing cash, all without worrying about any fees or charges with this card. “We are excited to launch our lifetime free credit card, which is designed to provide our customers with an unmatched experience,” said Chandani Shrestha, Head-Retail Lending Unit. “We believe that everyone should have access to credit, and with our new card, we are making it easier and more affordable than ever,” she added. The lifetime free credit card is available to new and existing account holders of Nabil Bank. To apply for the card, customers can visit Nabil bank's website or contact any of 256 branches across the country. According to the bank, this offer is valid till limited period only.   Nabil Bank, a leading financial services provider, has announced the launch of a new lifetime free credit card for the first time in Nepal to its customers. The new credit card is designed to provide cardholders with a host of benefits, without any annual fees or hidden charges. The Nabil Lifetime Free Credit Card offers a range of benefits, including no annual fee, no joining fee and no renewal fee. According to the bank, customers can enjoy the convenience of making purchases, paying bills, and withdrawing cash, all without worrying about any fees or charges with this card. “We are excited to launch our lifetime free credit card, which is designed to provide our customers with an unmatched experience,” said Chandani Shrestha, Head-Retail Lending Unit. “We believe that everyone should have access to credit, and with our new card, we are making it easier and more affordable than ever,” she added. The lifetime free credit card is available to new and existing account holders of Nabil Bank. To apply for the card, customers can visit Nabil bank's website or contact any of 256 branches across the country. According to the bank, this offer is valid till limited period only.   Nabil Bank, a leading financial services provider, has announced the launch of a new lifetime free credit card for the first time in Nepal to its customers. The new credit card is designed to provide cardholders with a host of benefits, without any annual fees or hidden charges. The Nabil Lifetime Free Credit Card offers a range of benefits, including no annual fee, no joining fee and no renewal fee. According to the bank, customers can enjoy the convenience of making purchases, paying bills, and withdrawing cash, all without worrying about any fees or charges with this card. “We are excited to launch our lifetime free credit card, which is designed to provide our customers with an unmatched experience,” said Chandani Shrestha, Head-Retail Lending Unit. “We believe that everyone should have access to credit, and with our new card, we are making it easier and more affordable than ever,” she added. The lifetime free credit card is available to new and existing account holders of Nabil Bank. To apply for the card, customers can visit Nabil bank's website or contact any of 256 branches across the country. According to the bank, this offer is valid till limited period only.   "
2023-04-25,SB Solutions implements Credit Administration Module successfully in Nabil Bank,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/sb-solutions-implements-credit-administration-module-successfully-in-nabil-bank-2023-04-25,"SB Solutions Pvt. Ltd., a leading software company in Nepal, has successfully implemented its Credit Administration Module (CAD module) in Nabil Bank Ltd, one of the leading commercial banks in Nepal. CAD Module is a part of the full lending management system, Credit X, developed by SB Solutions. The implementation of this solution in Nabil Bank has been in use for over a year and has enabled the bank to generate all types of legal documents, including offer letters, loan deeds, mortgage deeds, and promissory notes, quickly and efficiently. SB Solutions has been working in the field of loan automation and process automation for five years in Nepal. With the successful completion of a year of document generation of Nabil Bank Ltd. through CAD module marks another milestone in the company's journey. The document generation features have helped the bank to save its time in manual processes and serve their customers better through faster administration. The company has already served over 20 banks and financial institutions in Nepal, providing them with innovative lending automation solutions. CAD module is designed to handle complex conditions and cases, including the generation of combination offer letters. The system makes it very easy for users of banks and financial institutions to create documents by simply filling out a single form, after which all the necessary documents reflecting each case of the customer are automatically generated. Additionally, the system can consume API for providing data and allows for the translation of English input to Nepali language, making it even more accessible for the users. ""We are excited to have successfully implemented our solution in Nabil Bank through CAD Module. We hope to standardize the legal documents across all banks and financial institutions of Nepal. Success in Nabil bank is a big milestone for us in achieving our vision,"" said Mr. Sanjog Mishra, CEO of SB Solutions Pvt. Ltd. ""Our aim has always been to provide innovative solutions that enable banks and financial institutions to streamline their lending processes, and we are pleased to see that our efforts have yielded positive results."" SB Solutions Pvt. Ltd. is a software company based in Kathmandu, Nepal. The company specializes in developing innovative lending automation solutions that help banks and financial institutions streamline their lending processes. With over five years of experience in the field, SB Solutions has served over 20 banks and financial institutions in Nepal.   Sanjog Mishra, CEO sanjog@sbsolutionsnepal.com, 9851181515 Shiva Narayan Chaudhary, Business Development, shiva.chaudhary@sbsolutionsnepal.com, 9801856704   SB Solutions Pvt. Ltd., a leading software company in Nepal, has successfully implemented its Credit Administration Module (CAD module) in Nabil Bank Ltd, one of the leading commercial banks in Nepal. CAD Module is a part of the full lending management system, Credit X, developed by SB Solutions. The implementation of this solution in Nabil Bank has been in use for over a year and has enabled the bank to generate all types of legal documents, including offer letters, loan deeds, mortgage deeds, and promissory notes, quickly and efficiently. SB Solutions has been working in the field of loan automation and process automation for five years in Nepal. With the successful completion of a year of document generation of Nabil Bank Ltd. through CAD module marks another milestone in the company's journey. The document generation features have helped the bank to save its time in manual processes and serve their customers better through faster administration. The company has already served over 20 banks and financial institutions in Nepal, providing them with innovative lending automation solutions. CAD module is designed to handle complex conditions and cases, including the generation of combination offer letters. The system makes it very easy for users of banks and financial institutions to create documents by simply filling out a single form, after which all the necessary documents reflecting each case of the customer are automatically generated. Additionally, the system can consume API for providing data and allows for the translation of English input to Nepali language, making it even more accessible for the users. ""We are excited to have successfully implemented our solution in Nabil Bank through CAD Module. We hope to standardize the legal documents across all banks and financial institutions of Nepal. Success in Nabil bank is a big milestone for us in achieving our vision,"" said Mr. Sanjog Mishra, CEO of SB Solutions Pvt. Ltd. ""Our aim has always been to provide innovative solutions that enable banks and financial institutions to streamline their lending processes, and we are pleased to see that our efforts have yielded positive results."" SB Solutions Pvt. Ltd. is a software company based in Kathmandu, Nepal. The company specializes in developing innovative lending automation solutions that help banks and financial institutions streamline their lending processes. With over five years of experience in the field, SB Solutions has served over 20 banks and financial institutions in Nepal.   Sanjog Mishra, CEO sanjog@sbsolutionsnepal.com, 9851181515 Shiva Narayan Chaudhary, Business Development, shiva.chaudhary@sbsolutionsnepal.com, 9801856704   SB Solutions Pvt. Ltd., a leading software company in Nepal, has successfully implemented its Credit Administration Module (CAD module) in Nabil Bank Ltd, one of the leading commercial banks in Nepal. CAD Module is a part of the full lending management system, Credit X, developed by SB Solutions. The implementation of this solution in Nabil Bank has been in use for over a year and has enabled the bank to generate all types of legal documents, including offer letters, loan deeds, mortgage deeds, and promissory notes, quickly and efficiently. SB Solutions has been working in the field of loan automation and process automation for five years in Nepal. With the successful completion of a year of document generation of Nabil Bank Ltd. through CAD module marks another milestone in the company's journey. The document generation features have helped the bank to save its time in manual processes and serve their customers better through faster administration. The company has already served over 20 banks and financial institutions in Nepal, providing them with innovative lending automation solutions. CAD module is designed to handle complex conditions and cases, including the generation of combination offer letters. The system makes it very easy for users of banks and financial institutions to create documents by simply filling out a single form, after which all the necessary documents reflecting each case of the customer are automatically generated. Additionally, the system can consume API for providing data and allows for the translation of English input to Nepali language, making it even more accessible for the users. ""We are excited to have successfully implemented our solution in Nabil Bank through CAD Module. We hope to standardize the legal documents across all banks and financial institutions of Nepal. Success in Nabil bank is a big milestone for us in achieving our vision,"" said Mr. Sanjog Mishra, CEO of SB Solutions Pvt. Ltd. ""Our aim has always been to provide innovative solutions that enable banks and financial institutions to streamline their lending processes, and we are pleased to see that our efforts have yielded positive results."" SB Solutions Pvt. Ltd. is a software company based in Kathmandu, Nepal. The company specializes in developing innovative lending automation solutions that help banks and financial institutions streamline their lending processes. With over five years of experience in the field, SB Solutions has served over 20 banks and financial institutions in Nepal.   Sanjog Mishra, CEO sanjog@sbsolutionsnepal.com, 9851181515 Shiva Narayan Chaudhary, Business Development, shiva.chaudhary@sbsolutionsnepal.com, 9801856704   "
2023-04-21,NRB Takes Action Against These 8 Commercial Banks for Violating NRB Guidelines,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nrb-takes-action-against-these-8-commercial-banks-for-violating-nrb-guidelines-2023-04-21,"Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank – Now Kumari Bank Limited: Contrary to the integrated method for concessional loans, NCC granted more than one concessional loan to the same group, failed to provide enough loan loss coverage in some loans, and altered the premium rate in some loans in violation of NRB directives. A violation was discovered, and the Chief Executive Officer was notified in accordance with section 100's sub-section (2) (a) of the Nepal Rastra Bank Act of 2058. When disbursing subsidized loans, Kumari Bank did not verify the loans' justifications, paid more interest on some fixed deposits than the published interest rate, failed to include sufficient loan loss provisions and risk weighting in some loans, and otherwise violated the NRB's instructions. As the Chief Executive Officer approved the loan beyond his authority, Mr. Amritcharan Shrestha, the then Chief Executive Officer of Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank Limited, has been fined Rs. Five lakh. Rastriya Banijya Bank – Under scrutiny, it was found that the bank was involved in a money laundering transaction and has been charged penalty worth Rs. 10 Lakh. Century Commercial Bank: Now Prabhu Bank – For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 2.84 Crores for the month of Shrawan and Bhadra.  Nepal Bank Limited: For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 1.85 Crores for the month of Shrawan. Nabil Bank: For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 6.46 Crores for the month of Shrawan, Bhadra and Ashoj. Global IME Bank Limited: For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 4.42 Crores for the month of Bhadra and Ashoj. Agriculture Development Bank: For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 69.58 Lakhs for the month of Bhadra. Himalayan Bank Limited: For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 71.72 Lakhs for the month of Bhadra. Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank – Now Kumari Bank Limited: Contrary to the integrated method for concessional loans, NCC granted more than one concessional loan to the same group, failed to provide enough loan loss coverage in some loans, and altered the premium rate in some loans in violation of NRB directives. A violation was discovered, and the Chief Executive Officer was notified in accordance with section 100's sub-section (2) (a) of the Nepal Rastra Bank Act of 2058. When disbursing subsidized loans, Kumari Bank did not verify the loans' justifications, paid more interest on some fixed deposits than the published interest rate, failed to include sufficient loan loss provisions and risk weighting in some loans, and otherwise violated the NRB's instructions. As the Chief Executive Officer approved the loan beyond his authority, Mr. Amritcharan Shrestha, the then Chief Executive Officer of Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank Limited, has been fined Rs. Five lakh. Rastriya Banijya Bank – Under scrutiny, it was found that the bank was involved in a money laundering transaction and has been charged penalty worth Rs. 10 Lakh. Century Commercial Bank: Now Prabhu Bank – For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 2.84 Crores for the month of Shrawan and Bhadra.  Nepal Bank Limited: For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 1.85 Crores for the month of Shrawan. Nabil Bank: For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 6.46 Crores for the month of Shrawan, Bhadra and Ashoj. Global IME Bank Limited: For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 4.42 Crores for the month of Bhadra and Ashoj. Agriculture Development Bank: For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 69.58 Lakhs for the month of Bhadra. Himalayan Bank Limited: For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 71.72 Lakhs for the month of Bhadra. Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank – Now Kumari Bank Limited: Contrary to the integrated method for concessional loans, NCC granted more than one concessional loan to the same group, failed to provide enough loan loss coverage in some loans, and altered the premium rate in some loans in violation of NRB directives. A violation was discovered, and the Chief Executive Officer was notified in accordance with section 100's sub-section (2) (a) of the Nepal Rastra Bank Act of 2058. When disbursing subsidized loans, Kumari Bank did not verify the loans' justifications, paid more interest on some fixed deposits than the published interest rate, failed to include sufficient loan loss provisions and risk weighting in some loans, and otherwise violated the NRB's instructions. As the Chief Executive Officer approved the loan beyond his authority, Mr. Amritcharan Shrestha, the then Chief Executive Officer of Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank Limited, has been fined Rs. Five lakh. Rastriya Banijya Bank – Under scrutiny, it was found that the bank was involved in a money laundering transaction and has been charged penalty worth Rs. 10 Lakh. Century Commercial Bank: Now Prabhu Bank – For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 2.84 Crores for the month of Shrawan and Bhadra.  Nepal Bank Limited: For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 1.85 Crores for the month of Shrawan. Nabil Bank: For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 6.46 Crores for the month of Shrawan, Bhadra and Ashoj. Global IME Bank Limited: For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 4.42 Crores for the month of Bhadra and Ashoj. Agriculture Development Bank: For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 69.58 Lakhs for the month of Bhadra. Himalayan Bank Limited: For not maintaining the required ratio of loans and deposits i.e CD Ratio worth Rs. 71.72 Lakhs for the month of Bhadra. "
2023-04-21,Nabil Bank and Purbanchal University ink MoU of mutual cooperation,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-purbanchal-university-ink-mou-of-mutual-cooperation-2023-04-20,"Nabil Bank and Purbanchal University have signed a MOU to collaborate in providing banking facilities and skill enhancement programs. Under this agreement, the bank will provide total banking facilities and digital solutions to all working staffs of Purbanchal University. The bank will open its branch in the premises of the university in Gothgaun, Morang for quality services and easy accessibility. Similarly, the university will assist the bank by providing various training programs to enhance skill and knowledge of banking staffs. The MOU was signed by Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank and Nil Mani Pokharel, Registrar, Purbanchal University during a signing program in presence of Dr. Yadav Raj Koirala, Vice Chancellor, and Sanjesh Prasad Koirala, Chief of Inspection and Valuation, Purbanchal University and Bhupendra Pandey, Deputy CEO and  Kabindra Prasad Shrestha, Chief of Wholesale Liability, Nabil Bank. “With this agreement, our bank’s employees will be offered by various training and development programs by the university which will ultimately benefit in career progression,” said CEO Dhungana, adding that the bank will provide the best banking quality services to the university. According to the bank, this agreement will be beneficial for both parties. Nabil Bank and Purbanchal University have signed a MOU to collaborate in providing banking facilities and skill enhancement programs. Under this agreement, the bank will provide total banking facilities and digital solutions to all working staffs of Purbanchal University. The bank will open its branch in the premises of the university in Gothgaun, Morang for quality services and easy accessibility. Similarly, the university will assist the bank by providing various training programs to enhance skill and knowledge of banking staffs. The MOU was signed by Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank and Nil Mani Pokharel, Registrar, Purbanchal University during a signing program in presence of Dr. Yadav Raj Koirala, Vice Chancellor, and Sanjesh Prasad Koirala, Chief of Inspection and Valuation, Purbanchal University and Bhupendra Pandey, Deputy CEO and  Kabindra Prasad Shrestha, Chief of Wholesale Liability, Nabil Bank. “With this agreement, our bank’s employees will be offered by various training and development programs by the university which will ultimately benefit in career progression,” said CEO Dhungana, adding that the bank will provide the best banking quality services to the university. According to the bank, this agreement will be beneficial for both parties. Nabil Bank and Purbanchal University have signed a MOU to collaborate in providing banking facilities and skill enhancement programs. Under this agreement, the bank will provide total banking facilities and digital solutions to all working staffs of Purbanchal University. The bank will open its branch in the premises of the university in Gothgaun, Morang for quality services and easy accessibility. Similarly, the university will assist the bank by providing various training programs to enhance skill and knowledge of banking staffs. The MOU was signed by Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank and Nil Mani Pokharel, Registrar, Purbanchal University during a signing program in presence of Dr. Yadav Raj Koirala, Vice Chancellor, and Sanjesh Prasad Koirala, Chief of Inspection and Valuation, Purbanchal University and Bhupendra Pandey, Deputy CEO and  Kabindra Prasad Shrestha, Chief of Wholesale Liability, Nabil Bank. “With this agreement, our bank’s employees will be offered by various training and development programs by the university which will ultimately benefit in career progression,” said CEO Dhungana, adding that the bank will provide the best banking quality services to the university. According to the bank, this agreement will be beneficial for both parties. "
2023-04-20,Comparative Analysis of Third Quarter Reports of 21 Commercial Banks; Industry Accumulates An Average Profit of 2.32 Arba In Q3,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/comparative-analysis-of-third-quarter-reports-of-21-commercial-banks-industry-accumulates-an-average-profit-of-232-arba-in-q3-2023-04-20,"All 21 commercial banks have unveiled their third quarter report of the current fiscal year 2079/80. Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the Lower Credit Expansion, Liquidity Shortage, Higher Treasury Bill rates, and inflation rates, Banks have reported slight improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter.  Keeping all the speculation aside, in this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks as of Q3 of Fiscal year 2079/80 and doing a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. Note: Out of the previous 22 commercial banks in Nepal,  Himalayan Bank and Civil Bank signed MoU where Civil Bank got acquired by Himalayan Bank at a swap ratio of 100:80.28. Whereas, Laxmi Bank and Sunrise Bank signed MoU for merger recently.  Net profit: As per the net profit of the third quarter of FY 2079/80, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs.5.12 Arba with a growth of 52.63% as compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) also reported net profit of Rs. 4.36 Arba with a growth of 16.96%, hence it stands in the second position to accumulate higher profits for the third quarter. In the third position, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a net profit of Rs 4.01 Arba. Also, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported highest growth in net profit by 62.63% in this quarter.  Out of 21 commercial banks, the net profit of the newly merged banks - NIMB is not compared with the third quarter of the relevant quarter.  On the other hand, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) reported net profit of Rs. 1.04 Arba which has dropped by 45.36%.   Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 35.77 Arba capital,  Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) with Rs. 34.13 Arba and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with Rs. 27.06 Arba paid-up capital.    Note: ADBL Capital includes Rs 5.43 Arba irredeemable non-cumulative preference shares. Reserve and surplus: The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.64 Kharba where the industry average of Rs 12.60 Arba.  In terms of reserves and surplus, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 27.35 Arba, Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) has maintained the second position with Rs 22.82 Arba reserve and surplus fund and  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 20.86 Arba  Deposits from Customers: On an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 2.22 Kharba as a deposit. Only 8 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the third quarter of FY 2079/80,  Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 4.09 Kharba, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 3.63 Kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Nepal Investment Mega Bank (NIMB) with the collected deposit of Rs 3.50 kharba respectively. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 1.07 Kharba.  Loans and advances to Customers: The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 3.62 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 3.23 kharba.  Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 80.07 Arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.97 Kharba. 8 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.86 Kharba.   Net Interest Income: Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with an income of Rs 12.10 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 11.79 Arba.  Provisions for the period (Impairment/Reversal): Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 31.32 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses.  Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 3.96 Arba followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with a total of Rs. 3.33 Arba. In the same vein, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the lowest of impairment charge for a loan and other losses of Rs. 24 Crores. * - Reversal and + Provision   Major indicators: Earnings per share: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 46.29 per share. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 36.91 per share. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 30.74 per share. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) stays at the bottom with a Earning of Rs. 7.90 per share.  The average EPS of 21 commercial banks stands at Rs 19.27. Only 7 commercial banks provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 248.88 which belongs to NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA). Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL)  is in the second position with Rs 242.68. Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q3 of FY 2079/80 i.e. Rs 241.97. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has the least net worth of Rs 140.29 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 179.53 per share. 8 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. P/E Ratio: Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  has the least PE ratio of 11.63 times. It is followed by Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) with a PE ratio of 11.96 times.  (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios but rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR): In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR),Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.63%. This is followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with a CAR of 14.83%. CAR is the ratio of a bank’s capital in relation to its risk weighted assets and current liabilities.  Non-Performing Loan: In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported the lowest NPL of 0.70% in terms of asset quality.  Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) has reported the highest NPL of 4.56%, followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with an NPL of 4.35%  Others: Cost of Funds: The term cost of funds refers to how much banks and financial institutions spend in order to acquire money to lend to their customers. The lower the cost of funds, the better because it ultimately reduces the cost of banks. As per reports, Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) has the highest Cost of Funds of 9.09%, whereas Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) the lowest cost of funds of 6.42%. CD Ratio: The CD ratio refers to the credit-deposit ratio in banking parlance. It tells how much of the money banks have raised in the form of deposits has been deployed as loans. Likewise, Citizens Bank Limited (CZBIL) has reported highest CD ratio of 90.69%, whereas Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the lowest CD ratio of 77.74%. Base Rate and Interest Spread: Base rate is defined as the minimum interest rate set by the NRB below which Commercial banks are not permitted to lend to their customers. Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL) reports highest base rate of 11.34%, and Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has lowest base rate of 8.47%. Similarly, the net interest rate spread is the difference between the interest rate a bank pays to depositors and the interest rate it receives from loans to consumers. Here, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the highest interest spread of 5.2%, whereas Citizens Bank Limited (CZBIL) has the lowest interest spread of 3.71% for the third quarter of FY 2079/80. Also, As per NRB instructions, commercial banks need to maintain spread rate to 4 from existing 4.4%  by the end of the current FY 2079/80. Cost of Funds, CD Ratio, Base Rates and Interest Spread:   Finally, the table below shows provides a full picture of major indicators of 21 commercial banks as of the third quarter of FY 2079-2080.  All 21 commercial banks have unveiled their third quarter report of the current fiscal year 2079/80. Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the Lower Credit Expansion, Liquidity Shortage, Higher Treasury Bill rates, and inflation rates, Banks have reported slight improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter.  Keeping all the speculation aside, in this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks as of Q3 of Fiscal year 2079/80 and doing a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. Note: Out of the previous 22 commercial banks in Nepal,  Himalayan Bank and Civil Bank signed MoU where Civil Bank got acquired by Himalayan Bank at a swap ratio of 100:80.28. Whereas, Laxmi Bank and Sunrise Bank signed MoU for merger recently.  Net profit: As per the net profit of the third quarter of FY 2079/80, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs.5.12 Arba with a growth of 52.63% as compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) also reported net profit of Rs. 4.36 Arba with a growth of 16.96%, hence it stands in the second position to accumulate higher profits for the third quarter. In the third position, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a net profit of Rs 4.01 Arba. Also, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported highest growth in net profit by 62.63% in this quarter.  Out of 21 commercial banks, the net profit of the newly merged banks - NIMB is not compared with the third quarter of the relevant quarter.  On the other hand, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) reported net profit of Rs. 1.04 Arba which has dropped by 45.36%.   Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 35.77 Arba capital,  Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) with Rs. 34.13 Arba and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with Rs. 27.06 Arba paid-up capital.    Note: ADBL Capital includes Rs 5.43 Arba irredeemable non-cumulative preference shares. Reserve and surplus: The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.64 Kharba where the industry average of Rs 12.60 Arba.  In terms of reserves and surplus, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 27.35 Arba, Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) has maintained the second position with Rs 22.82 Arba reserve and surplus fund and  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 20.86 Arba  Deposits from Customers: On an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 2.22 Kharba as a deposit. Only 8 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the third quarter of FY 2079/80,  Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 4.09 Kharba, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 3.63 Kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Nepal Investment Mega Bank (NIMB) with the collected deposit of Rs 3.50 kharba respectively. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 1.07 Kharba.  Loans and advances to Customers: The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 3.62 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 3.23 kharba.  Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 80.07 Arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.97 Kharba. 8 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.86 Kharba.   Net Interest Income: Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with an income of Rs 12.10 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 11.79 Arba.  Provisions for the period (Impairment/Reversal): Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 31.32 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses.  Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 3.96 Arba followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with a total of Rs. 3.33 Arba. In the same vein, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the lowest of impairment charge for a loan and other losses of Rs. 24 Crores. * - Reversal and + Provision   Major indicators: Earnings per share: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 46.29 per share. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 36.91 per share. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 30.74 per share. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) stays at the bottom with a Earning of Rs. 7.90 per share.  The average EPS of 21 commercial banks stands at Rs 19.27. Only 7 commercial banks provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 248.88 which belongs to NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA). Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL)  is in the second position with Rs 242.68. Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q3 of FY 2079/80 i.e. Rs 241.97. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has the least net worth of Rs 140.29 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 179.53 per share. 8 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. P/E Ratio: Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  has the least PE ratio of 11.63 times. It is followed by Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) with a PE ratio of 11.96 times.  (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios but rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR): In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR),Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.63%. This is followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with a CAR of 14.83%. CAR is the ratio of a bank’s capital in relation to its risk weighted assets and current liabilities.  Non-Performing Loan: In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported the lowest NPL of 0.70% in terms of asset quality.  Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) has reported the highest NPL of 4.56%, followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with an NPL of 4.35%  Others: Cost of Funds: The term cost of funds refers to how much banks and financial institutions spend in order to acquire money to lend to their customers. The lower the cost of funds, the better because it ultimately reduces the cost of banks. As per reports, Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) has the highest Cost of Funds of 9.09%, whereas Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) the lowest cost of funds of 6.42%. CD Ratio: The CD ratio refers to the credit-deposit ratio in banking parlance. It tells how much of the money banks have raised in the form of deposits has been deployed as loans. Likewise, Citizens Bank Limited (CZBIL) has reported highest CD ratio of 90.69%, whereas Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the lowest CD ratio of 77.74%. Base Rate and Interest Spread: Base rate is defined as the minimum interest rate set by the NRB below which Commercial banks are not permitted to lend to their customers. Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL) reports highest base rate of 11.34%, and Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has lowest base rate of 8.47%. Similarly, the net interest rate spread is the difference between the interest rate a bank pays to depositors and the interest rate it receives from loans to consumers. Here, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the highest interest spread of 5.2%, whereas Citizens Bank Limited (CZBIL) has the lowest interest spread of 3.71% for the third quarter of FY 2079/80. Also, As per NRB instructions, commercial banks need to maintain spread rate to 4 from existing 4.4%  by the end of the current FY 2079/80. Cost of Funds, CD Ratio, Base Rates and Interest Spread:   Finally, the table below shows provides a full picture of major indicators of 21 commercial banks as of the third quarter of FY 2079-2080.  All 21 commercial banks have unveiled their third quarter report of the current fiscal year 2079/80. Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the Lower Credit Expansion, Liquidity Shortage, Higher Treasury Bill rates, and inflation rates, Banks have reported slight improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter.  Keeping all the speculation aside, in this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks as of Q3 of Fiscal year 2079/80 and doing a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. Note: Out of the previous 22 commercial banks in Nepal,  Himalayan Bank and Civil Bank signed MoU where Civil Bank got acquired by Himalayan Bank at a swap ratio of 100:80.28. Whereas, Laxmi Bank and Sunrise Bank signed MoU for merger recently.  Net profit: As per the net profit of the third quarter of FY 2079/80, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs.5.12 Arba with a growth of 52.63% as compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) also reported net profit of Rs. 4.36 Arba with a growth of 16.96%, hence it stands in the second position to accumulate higher profits for the third quarter. In the third position, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a net profit of Rs 4.01 Arba. Also, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported highest growth in net profit by 62.63% in this quarter.  Out of 21 commercial banks, the net profit of the newly merged banks - NIMB is not compared with the third quarter of the relevant quarter.  On the other hand, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) reported net profit of Rs. 1.04 Arba which has dropped by 45.36%.   Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 35.77 Arba capital,  Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) with Rs. 34.13 Arba and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with Rs. 27.06 Arba paid-up capital.    Note: ADBL Capital includes Rs 5.43 Arba irredeemable non-cumulative preference shares. Reserve and surplus: The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.64 Kharba where the industry average of Rs 12.60 Arba.  In terms of reserves and surplus, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 27.35 Arba, Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) has maintained the second position with Rs 22.82 Arba reserve and surplus fund and  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 20.86 Arba  Deposits from Customers: On an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 2.22 Kharba as a deposit. Only 8 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the third quarter of FY 2079/80,  Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 4.09 Kharba, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 3.63 Kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Nepal Investment Mega Bank (NIMB) with the collected deposit of Rs 3.50 kharba respectively. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 1.07 Kharba.  Loans and advances to Customers: The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 3.62 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 3.23 kharba.  Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 80.07 Arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.97 Kharba. 8 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.86 Kharba.   Net Interest Income: Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with an income of Rs 12.10 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 11.79 Arba.  Provisions for the period (Impairment/Reversal): Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 31.32 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses.  Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 3.96 Arba followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with a total of Rs. 3.33 Arba. In the same vein, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the lowest of impairment charge for a loan and other losses of Rs. 24 Crores. * - Reversal and + Provision   Major indicators: Earnings per share: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 46.29 per share. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 36.91 per share. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 30.74 per share. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) stays at the bottom with a Earning of Rs. 7.90 per share.  The average EPS of 21 commercial banks stands at Rs 19.27. Only 7 commercial banks provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 248.88 which belongs to NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA). Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL)  is in the second position with Rs 242.68. Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q3 of FY 2079/80 i.e. Rs 241.97. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has the least net worth of Rs 140.29 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 179.53 per share. 8 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. P/E Ratio: Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  has the least PE ratio of 11.63 times. It is followed by Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) with a PE ratio of 11.96 times.  (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios but rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR): In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR),Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.63%. This is followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with a CAR of 14.83%. CAR is the ratio of a bank’s capital in relation to its risk weighted assets and current liabilities.  Non-Performing Loan: In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported the lowest NPL of 0.70% in terms of asset quality.  Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) has reported the highest NPL of 4.56%, followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with an NPL of 4.35%  Others: Cost of Funds: The term cost of funds refers to how much banks and financial institutions spend in order to acquire money to lend to their customers. The lower the cost of funds, the better because it ultimately reduces the cost of banks. As per reports, Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) has the highest Cost of Funds of 9.09%, whereas Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) the lowest cost of funds of 6.42%. CD Ratio: The CD ratio refers to the credit-deposit ratio in banking parlance. It tells how much of the money banks have raised in the form of deposits has been deployed as loans. Likewise, Citizens Bank Limited (CZBIL) has reported highest CD ratio of 90.69%, whereas Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the lowest CD ratio of 77.74%. Base Rate and Interest Spread: Base rate is defined as the minimum interest rate set by the NRB below which Commercial banks are not permitted to lend to their customers. Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL) reports highest base rate of 11.34%, and Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has lowest base rate of 8.47%. Similarly, the net interest rate spread is the difference between the interest rate a bank pays to depositors and the interest rate it receives from loans to consumers. Here, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the highest interest spread of 5.2%, whereas Citizens Bank Limited (CZBIL) has the lowest interest spread of 3.71% for the third quarter of FY 2079/80. Also, As per NRB instructions, commercial banks need to maintain spread rate to 4 from existing 4.4%  by the end of the current FY 2079/80. Cost of Funds, CD Ratio, Base Rates and Interest Spread:   Finally, the table below shows provides a full picture of major indicators of 21 commercial banks as of the third quarter of FY 2079-2080.  "
2023-04-20,"Nabil Bank's Q3: Earn Rs 5.11 Arba, Massive Impairment Charges of Rs 3.33 Arba, NPL at 3.87% and Rs 1.82 Arba Interest Amount Yet to be Recovered",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-q3-earn-rs-511-arba-massive-impairment-charges-of-rs-333-arba-npl-at-387-and-rs-182-arba-interest-amount-yet-to-be-recovered-2023-04-20,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published a third-quarter report for FY 2079/80 with 52.63% growth in net profit. The bank’s profit has increased from Rs. 3.35 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2078/79 to Rs 5.11 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2079/80. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 1.77 Arba as distributable profit after Regulatory Adjustments and PL appropriations which can be utilized in distributing dividends to its shareholders. The existing capital adequacy of Nabil Bank is 12.34% and the Credit to Deposit (CD) ratio of the bank is 87.68%. The bank has deposits from customers of Rs 3.63 Kharba and loans and advances to customers stand at Rs 3.23 Kharba until the third quarter. The net interest income of the bank has increased by 83.62% to Rs 12.10 Arba from Rs 6.59 arba in the corresponding quarter. (Note: Rise in % of Net Profit and Net Interest Income is due to the inclusion of Nepal Bangladesh Bank financials after the merger in this FY) For the third quarter, the impairment charges (provision for possible losses) have increased by 445.72% to stand at a massive Rs. 3.33 arba, which has affected the profitability of the company for this period. The non-performing loan (NPL) of the company has also increased to 3.87% from 1.14%.  The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs 27.05 Arba with Rs 27.34 Arba as its reserve and surplus. Till this quarter, the Interest Amount yet to be recovered was at Rs 1.82 Arba whereas the same amount stands at Rs 27.30 crore in the corresponding quarter. In the third quarter, the annualized EPS of the bank stands at Rs 25.21. The net worth per share stands at Rs 201.07 and PE ratio stands at 24.55 times. Details Regarding The Press Release Of Nabil Bank’s Proposed Acquisition Of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Major Highlights: Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published a third-quarter report for FY 2079/80 with 52.63% growth in net profit. The bank’s profit has increased from Rs. 3.35 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2078/79 to Rs 5.11 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2079/80. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 1.77 Arba as distributable profit after Regulatory Adjustments and PL appropriations which can be utilized in distributing dividends to its shareholders. The existing capital adequacy of Nabil Bank is 12.34% and the Credit to Deposit (CD) ratio of the bank is 87.68%. The bank has deposits from customers of Rs 3.63 Kharba and loans and advances to customers stand at Rs 3.23 Kharba until the third quarter. The net interest income of the bank has increased by 83.62% to Rs 12.10 Arba from Rs 6.59 arba in the corresponding quarter. (Note: Rise in % of Net Profit and Net Interest Income is due to the inclusion of Nepal Bangladesh Bank financials after the merger in this FY) For the third quarter, the impairment charges (provision for possible losses) have increased by 445.72% to stand at a massive Rs. 3.33 arba, which has affected the profitability of the company for this period. The non-performing loan (NPL) of the company has also increased to 3.87% from 1.14%.  The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs 27.05 Arba with Rs 27.34 Arba as its reserve and surplus. Till this quarter, the Interest Amount yet to be recovered was at Rs 1.82 Arba whereas the same amount stands at Rs 27.30 crore in the corresponding quarter. In the third quarter, the annualized EPS of the bank stands at Rs 25.21. The net worth per share stands at Rs 201.07 and PE ratio stands at 24.55 times. Details Regarding The Press Release Of Nabil Bank’s Proposed Acquisition Of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Major Highlights: Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published a third-quarter report for FY 2079/80 with 52.63% growth in net profit. The bank’s profit has increased from Rs. 3.35 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2078/79 to Rs 5.11 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2079/80. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 1.77 Arba as distributable profit after Regulatory Adjustments and PL appropriations which can be utilized in distributing dividends to its shareholders. The existing capital adequacy of Nabil Bank is 12.34% and the Credit to Deposit (CD) ratio of the bank is 87.68%. The bank has deposits from customers of Rs 3.63 Kharba and loans and advances to customers stand at Rs 3.23 Kharba until the third quarter. The net interest income of the bank has increased by 83.62% to Rs 12.10 Arba from Rs 6.59 arba in the corresponding quarter. (Note: Rise in % of Net Profit and Net Interest Income is due to the inclusion of Nepal Bangladesh Bank financials after the merger in this FY) For the third quarter, the impairment charges (provision for possible losses) have increased by 445.72% to stand at a massive Rs. 3.33 arba, which has affected the profitability of the company for this period. The non-performing loan (NPL) of the company has also increased to 3.87% from 1.14%.  The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs 27.05 Arba with Rs 27.34 Arba as its reserve and surplus. Till this quarter, the Interest Amount yet to be recovered was at Rs 1.82 Arba whereas the same amount stands at Rs 27.30 crore in the corresponding quarter. In the third quarter, the annualized EPS of the bank stands at Rs 25.21. The net worth per share stands at Rs 201.07 and PE ratio stands at 24.55 times. Details Regarding The Press Release Of Nabil Bank’s Proposed Acquisition Of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Major Highlights: "
2023-04-19,Nabil cardholders to get cashback while purchasing Samsung mobiles,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-cardholders-to-get-cashback-while-purchasing-samsung-mobiles-2023-04-19,"Nabil Bank has signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Samsung for availing special cash back on purchase of Samsung A 34 and A 54 5G for Nabil Bank Visa Debit and Credit Card holders. With this partnership, Nabil card holders can get NPR 2000 cashback on these models. The cashback is available on any of the Samsung's brand stores and retail outlets. Customers can apply for this credit card via Nabil Bank's website, nBank or any of the Nabil bank's 253 branches. Nabil Bank has always been in the forefront in introducing innovative products and services.  Nabil Bank has signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Samsung for availing special cash back on purchase of Samsung A 34 and A 54 5G for Nabil Bank Visa Debit and Credit Card holders. With this partnership, Nabil card holders can get NPR 2000 cashback on these models. The cashback is available on any of the Samsung's brand stores and retail outlets. Customers can apply for this credit card via Nabil Bank's website, nBank or any of the Nabil bank's 253 branches. Nabil Bank has always been in the forefront in introducing innovative products and services.  Nabil Bank has signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Samsung for availing special cash back on purchase of Samsung A 34 and A 54 5G for Nabil Bank Visa Debit and Credit Card holders. With this partnership, Nabil card holders can get NPR 2000 cashback on these models. The cashback is available on any of the Samsung's brand stores and retail outlets. Customers can apply for this credit card via Nabil Bank's website, nBank or any of the Nabil bank's 253 branches. Nabil Bank has always been in the forefront in introducing innovative products and services.  "
2023-04-17,CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana receives prabal Jana Sewa Shree medal from President Ramchandra Poudel,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/ceo-of-nabil-bank-mr-gyanendra-prasad-dhungana-receives-prabal-jana-sewa-shree-medal-from-president-ramchandra-poudel-2023-04-17,"President of Nepal Hon. Ram Chandra Poudel has felicitated CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana with Prabal Janasewashree medal on Baisakh 1, 2080, which was declared by the government during the previous year’s Constitution Day. Mr. Dhungana is currently the CEO of Nabil Bank who has more than 25 years of banking experience with various banks and has CA degree from India and Postgraduation from Australia. The entire bank family is very much thrilled towards this felicitation of Mr. Dhungana and extends the hearty wishes for all his upcoming contributions, as per the media statement.   President of Nepal Hon. Ram Chandra Poudel has felicitated CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana with Prabal Janasewashree medal on Baisakh 1, 2080, which was declared by the government during the previous year’s Constitution Day. Mr. Dhungana is currently the CEO of Nabil Bank who has more than 25 years of banking experience with various banks and has CA degree from India and Postgraduation from Australia. The entire bank family is very much thrilled towards this felicitation of Mr. Dhungana and extends the hearty wishes for all his upcoming contributions, as per the media statement.   President of Nepal Hon. Ram Chandra Poudel has felicitated CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana with Prabal Janasewashree medal on Baisakh 1, 2080, which was declared by the government during the previous year’s Constitution Day. Mr. Dhungana is currently the CEO of Nabil Bank who has more than 25 years of banking experience with various banks and has CA degree from India and Postgraduation from Australia. The entire bank family is very much thrilled towards this felicitation of Mr. Dhungana and extends the hearty wishes for all his upcoming contributions, as per the media statement.   "
2023-04-13,Nabil Bank unveils Calendar for 2080 BS; features themes of climate change  and environmental conservation,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-unveils-calendar-for-2080-bs-features-themes-of-climate-change-and-environmental-conservation-2023-04-13,"Nabil Bank limited has unveiled its Calendar 2080 BS. Since long year back, the bank is incorporating the different themes related to Nepalese society in its calendar. This year, the bank has featured the themes of the climate change  and environmental conservation which was jointly unveiled by CEO of the bank Mr Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Senior Deputy CEO Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Deputy CEOs Mr. Binaya Kumar Regmi and Mr. Bhupendra Pandey, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank limited has unveiled its Calendar 2080 BS. Since long year back, the bank is incorporating the different themes related to Nepalese society in its calendar. This year, the bank has featured the themes of the climate change  and environmental conservation which was jointly unveiled by CEO of the bank Mr Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Senior Deputy CEO Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Deputy CEOs Mr. Binaya Kumar Regmi and Mr. Bhupendra Pandey, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank limited has unveiled its Calendar 2080 BS. Since long year back, the bank is incorporating the different themes related to Nepalese society in its calendar. This year, the bank has featured the themes of the climate change  and environmental conservation which was jointly unveiled by CEO of the bank Mr Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Senior Deputy CEO Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Deputy CEOs Mr. Binaya Kumar Regmi and Mr. Bhupendra Pandey, as per the media statement. "
2023-03-27,Nabil Bank Publishes Greenhouse Gas Emission Report,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-publishes-greenhouse-gas-emission-report-2023-03-27,"Nabil Bank has disclosed its greenhouse gas (GHG) emission report of year 2022 from bank’s loan and investments portfolio under Infrastructure and Project Financing (IPF) division. The report has made public as a part of commitment letter signed by Nabil Bank as one of the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) signatories in 2021. The IPF portfolio includes a range of investment and loans to business sectors like energy, cement, airlines, telecommunication services and others. The Sustainable Banking vertical of the bank had set out to measure emissions from bank’s loan and investments portfolio under IPF division. As per the assessment of the portfolio’s carbon emission revealed that the total emissions for the year 2022 amounted 80,671.37 tonnes of carbon-dioxide equivalent. Simultaneously, investment on hydro and solar comprises carbon-dioxide emission avoided by 2131.81 tonnes. “While this is a significant amount, we are actively working to reduce our carbon footprint and make our portfolio more sustainable,” said Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank. Stating that Nabil Bank is dedicated to building a sustainable future, he added, “We recognize that this requires collective action. We believe that transparency is essential in achieving our goals, as we are committed to providing regular updates on our progress towards a net-zero carbon footprint.” Nabil Bank, being the first private sector bank in Nepal, has pioneered in financial service innovations and sustainability in the banking industry. The sustainable banking unit set up by bank is an approach to a new banking culture altogether and comes out of its desire to do responsible banking. According to the bank, it chooses to be more sustainable in all its actions, be it in its own operations and resource management, overall business activities including its CSR initiatives. Moreover, the bank encourages its staff for sustainable practices in daily lives, both inside and outside the office and shall gradually de-carbonize its own operations through clean energy sources. Nabil Bank has disclosed its greenhouse gas (GHG) emission report of year 2022 from bank’s loan and investments portfolio under Infrastructure and Project Financing (IPF) division. The report has made public as a part of commitment letter signed by Nabil Bank as one of the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) signatories in 2021. The IPF portfolio includes a range of investment and loans to business sectors like energy, cement, airlines, telecommunication services and others. The Sustainable Banking vertical of the bank had set out to measure emissions from bank’s loan and investments portfolio under IPF division. As per the assessment of the portfolio’s carbon emission revealed that the total emissions for the year 2022 amounted 80,671.37 tonnes of carbon-dioxide equivalent. Simultaneously, investment on hydro and solar comprises carbon-dioxide emission avoided by 2131.81 tonnes. “While this is a significant amount, we are actively working to reduce our carbon footprint and make our portfolio more sustainable,” said Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank. Stating that Nabil Bank is dedicated to building a sustainable future, he added, “We recognize that this requires collective action. We believe that transparency is essential in achieving our goals, as we are committed to providing regular updates on our progress towards a net-zero carbon footprint.” Nabil Bank, being the first private sector bank in Nepal, has pioneered in financial service innovations and sustainability in the banking industry. The sustainable banking unit set up by bank is an approach to a new banking culture altogether and comes out of its desire to do responsible banking. According to the bank, it chooses to be more sustainable in all its actions, be it in its own operations and resource management, overall business activities including its CSR initiatives. Moreover, the bank encourages its staff for sustainable practices in daily lives, both inside and outside the office and shall gradually de-carbonize its own operations through clean energy sources. Nabil Bank has disclosed its greenhouse gas (GHG) emission report of year 2022 from bank’s loan and investments portfolio under Infrastructure and Project Financing (IPF) division. The report has made public as a part of commitment letter signed by Nabil Bank as one of the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) signatories in 2021. The IPF portfolio includes a range of investment and loans to business sectors like energy, cement, airlines, telecommunication services and others. The Sustainable Banking vertical of the bank had set out to measure emissions from bank’s loan and investments portfolio under IPF division. As per the assessment of the portfolio’s carbon emission revealed that the total emissions for the year 2022 amounted 80,671.37 tonnes of carbon-dioxide equivalent. Simultaneously, investment on hydro and solar comprises carbon-dioxide emission avoided by 2131.81 tonnes. “While this is a significant amount, we are actively working to reduce our carbon footprint and make our portfolio more sustainable,” said Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank. Stating that Nabil Bank is dedicated to building a sustainable future, he added, “We recognize that this requires collective action. We believe that transparency is essential in achieving our goals, as we are committed to providing regular updates on our progress towards a net-zero carbon footprint.” Nabil Bank, being the first private sector bank in Nepal, has pioneered in financial service innovations and sustainability in the banking industry. The sustainable banking unit set up by bank is an approach to a new banking culture altogether and comes out of its desire to do responsible banking. According to the bank, it chooses to be more sustainable in all its actions, be it in its own operations and resource management, overall business activities including its CSR initiatives. Moreover, the bank encourages its staff for sustainable practices in daily lives, both inside and outside the office and shall gradually de-carbonize its own operations through clean energy sources. "
2023-03-24,"Nabil Bank Signs Letter of Cooperation With USAID TCA; Both Parties Agree To Work To Boost Tourism, Agriculture and Digital Services",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-signs-letter-of-cooperation-with-usaid-tca-both-parties-agree-to-work-to-boost-tourism-agriculture-and-digital-services-2023-03-24,"Nabil Bank has signed a Letter of Cooperation with USAID Trade and Competitiveness Activity with the common goal to increase availability of finance and access to financial products and services to micro, small and medium sized enterprises (MSMEs) in a sustainable way. With this co-operation, both parties agree to work to boost in tourism, agriculture and digital services. During the signing ceremony, Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, CEO of Nabil Bank and Agnes Luz, Chief of Party, USAID Trade and Competitiveness Activity signed in the agreement. This partnership is expected to cross-share organizational strengths, experience, technologies, methodologies, and resources to pursue common goals in collaborative way.  “Nabil being one of the pioneer bank adopting sustainable banking, we know how important is to design and develop products and services to enhance productivity of agriculture and tourism sector,” said CEO Dhungana. He further added that the bank will work on to design various products targeted to people living in rural areas, make sure to have availability of finances, increase employment through argo businesses and access to finance to all along with availability of digitalization. Moreover, he said, “The partnership will help investing more in digitization and access to finance which ultimately helps uplift the lives of people living in remote and rural areas.” Chief of Party Luz added such partnership provides services to MSME sectors prioritizing agricultural, tourism and digital service sectors. She further said, “We believe engaging private sector such as Nabil Bank creates market system development and its implementation would create dramatic effect on MSMEs.” The Nabil bank had formed Sustainable Banking vertical to incorporate ESG standards into its services in order to promote capital flows that achieve sustainable development goals, with decision based on risk, return and impact. USAID Trade and Competitiveness is a five-year activity that aims to chart a new path of growth for the Nepali economy as it recovers from the COVID-19 pandemic. Nabil Bank has signed a Letter of Cooperation with USAID Trade and Competitiveness Activity with the common goal to increase availability of finance and access to financial products and services to micro, small and medium sized enterprises (MSMEs) in a sustainable way. With this co-operation, both parties agree to work to boost in tourism, agriculture and digital services. During the signing ceremony, Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, CEO of Nabil Bank and Agnes Luz, Chief of Party, USAID Trade and Competitiveness Activity signed in the agreement. This partnership is expected to cross-share organizational strengths, experience, technologies, methodologies, and resources to pursue common goals in collaborative way.  “Nabil being one of the pioneer bank adopting sustainable banking, we know how important is to design and develop products and services to enhance productivity of agriculture and tourism sector,” said CEO Dhungana. He further added that the bank will work on to design various products targeted to people living in rural areas, make sure to have availability of finances, increase employment through argo businesses and access to finance to all along with availability of digitalization. Moreover, he said, “The partnership will help investing more in digitization and access to finance which ultimately helps uplift the lives of people living in remote and rural areas.” Chief of Party Luz added such partnership provides services to MSME sectors prioritizing agricultural, tourism and digital service sectors. She further said, “We believe engaging private sector such as Nabil Bank creates market system development and its implementation would create dramatic effect on MSMEs.” The Nabil bank had formed Sustainable Banking vertical to incorporate ESG standards into its services in order to promote capital flows that achieve sustainable development goals, with decision based on risk, return and impact. USAID Trade and Competitiveness is a five-year activity that aims to chart a new path of growth for the Nepali economy as it recovers from the COVID-19 pandemic. Nabil Bank has signed a Letter of Cooperation with USAID Trade and Competitiveness Activity with the common goal to increase availability of finance and access to financial products and services to micro, small and medium sized enterprises (MSMEs) in a sustainable way. With this co-operation, both parties agree to work to boost in tourism, agriculture and digital services. During the signing ceremony, Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, CEO of Nabil Bank and Agnes Luz, Chief of Party, USAID Trade and Competitiveness Activity signed in the agreement. This partnership is expected to cross-share organizational strengths, experience, technologies, methodologies, and resources to pursue common goals in collaborative way.  “Nabil being one of the pioneer bank adopting sustainable banking, we know how important is to design and develop products and services to enhance productivity of agriculture and tourism sector,” said CEO Dhungana. He further added that the bank will work on to design various products targeted to people living in rural areas, make sure to have availability of finances, increase employment through argo businesses and access to finance to all along with availability of digitalization. Moreover, he said, “The partnership will help investing more in digitization and access to finance which ultimately helps uplift the lives of people living in remote and rural areas.” Chief of Party Luz added such partnership provides services to MSME sectors prioritizing agricultural, tourism and digital service sectors. She further said, “We believe engaging private sector such as Nabil Bank creates market system development and its implementation would create dramatic effect on MSMEs.” The Nabil bank had formed Sustainable Banking vertical to incorporate ESG standards into its services in order to promote capital flows that achieve sustainable development goals, with decision based on risk, return and impact. USAID Trade and Competitiveness is a five-year activity that aims to chart a new path of growth for the Nepali economy as it recovers from the COVID-19 pandemic. "
2023-03-23,Commercial Banks Are Approaching Their 52-Weeks Low Price; What Does this Mean for Investors In BFI-Dominated Market?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-are-approaching-their-52-weeks-low-price-what-does-this-mean-for-investors-in-bfi-dominated-market-2023-03-23,"Any country’s stock market should represent both the state of the economy and its pace of expansion. That isn't the case, though, for economies in developing countries like ours, and it's mainly because of a severe dearth of diversification. Commercial banks still hold a huge stake in the Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE), accounting for about 35% of its market value. Nabil Bank is responsible for 6% of the entire market capitalization. Due to their large capital, commercial banks are also considered low-risk businesses. Price activity shows that these stocks stay away from unexpected fluctuations. Apart from commercial banks, development banks, financial institutions, microfinance groups, and other companies like insurance companies also have a good presence in the stock market. Commercial banks, which include a broad range of institutions and are the cornerstone of our nation's financial system, will be the focus of this article rather than entire BFIs. Of the prior 28 commercial banks in Nepal, the total number of commercial banks have reduced to 21 due to merger and acquisitions. 20 commercials as of now are publicly traded in the secondary market (NEPSE). The total market capitalization of NEPSE as of March 22, 2023 stands at Rs. 2,793,407.21 million, out of which the total market capitalization of a commercial bank is Rs 961,590,187,906. The NEPSE index is highly dependent on the commercial bank sector, which makes up a significant percentage of market capitalization, so the context mentioned above is crucial.  The market has been in a bear market since the bull market of 2021, and despite reassurance from analysts, the index has fallen even further. The majority of commercial banks are currently extremely near to their 52-week low point. This is shown in the chart below:  In many banks' instances, the Last Trading Price (LTP), which is calculated as of March 22, 2023, has come very close to the 52-week low. However, we also need to take into account the reality that many banks paid out dividend using profits from the previous fiscal year - 2078/79. As a result, the LTP has been modified to apply to any bonuses shares whose Book Closure has been completed as of March 22, 23. *The bonus dividend of only Nepal Investment Bank prior to the merger with Mega Bank has been considered for Bonus adjustment of NIMB - Nepal Investment Mega Bank.  Even after adjustment of LTP after bonus, if we compare it with 52 weeks low, there isn't much discrepancy. Laxmi Bank almost is now at a 52-week low. Similarly, other banks like NMB, NBL, SRBL, and CZBIL are also not much higher than their lowest points. On the positive side, when we look at the 52-week low data for commercial banks, we can see that the RSI (Relative Strength Index) is almost at 30, and the prices in the 52-week low are dropping rapidly, implying that now is the good time for investors to acquire commercial bank shares if they plan to hold them for a long period.  *The Relative Strength Index (RSI) is a momentum oscillator that measures the speed and change of price movements. The RSI oscillates between zero and 100. Traditionally the RSI is considered overbought when above 70 and oversold when below 30.  Similarly, in the table above we can see by what percentage the prices of scrips have fallen from their 52 weeks high point. Himalayan Bank’s price has fallen by 50%, which might be because its shares weren't traded for a long period of time due to its canceled merger with Nepal Investment Bank and later due to the process of acquiring Civil Bank. Nonetheless, for a stable sector like commercial bank even a two digit decrement is huge and that too in short span of time.   Any country’s stock market should represent both the state of the economy and its pace of expansion. That isn't the case, though, for economies in developing countries like ours, and it's mainly because of a severe dearth of diversification. Commercial banks still hold a huge stake in the Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE), accounting for about 35% of its market value. Nabil Bank is responsible for 6% of the entire market capitalization. Due to their large capital, commercial banks are also considered low-risk businesses. Price activity shows that these stocks stay away from unexpected fluctuations. Apart from commercial banks, development banks, financial institutions, microfinance groups, and other companies like insurance companies also have a good presence in the stock market. Commercial banks, which include a broad range of institutions and are the cornerstone of our nation's financial system, will be the focus of this article rather than entire BFIs. Of the prior 28 commercial banks in Nepal, the total number of commercial banks have reduced to 21 due to merger and acquisitions. 20 commercials as of now are publicly traded in the secondary market (NEPSE). The total market capitalization of NEPSE as of March 22, 2023 stands at Rs. 2,793,407.21 million, out of which the total market capitalization of a commercial bank is Rs 961,590,187,906. The NEPSE index is highly dependent on the commercial bank sector, which makes up a significant percentage of market capitalization, so the context mentioned above is crucial.  The market has been in a bear market since the bull market of 2021, and despite reassurance from analysts, the index has fallen even further. The majority of commercial banks are currently extremely near to their 52-week low point. This is shown in the chart below:  In many banks' instances, the Last Trading Price (LTP), which is calculated as of March 22, 2023, has come very close to the 52-week low. However, we also need to take into account the reality that many banks paid out dividend using profits from the previous fiscal year - 2078/79. As a result, the LTP has been modified to apply to any bonuses shares whose Book Closure has been completed as of March 22, 23. *The bonus dividend of only Nepal Investment Bank prior to the merger with Mega Bank has been considered for Bonus adjustment of NIMB - Nepal Investment Mega Bank.  Even after adjustment of LTP after bonus, if we compare it with 52 weeks low, there isn't much discrepancy. Laxmi Bank almost is now at a 52-week low. Similarly, other banks like NMB, NBL, SRBL, and CZBIL are also not much higher than their lowest points. On the positive side, when we look at the 52-week low data for commercial banks, we can see that the RSI (Relative Strength Index) is almost at 30, and the prices in the 52-week low are dropping rapidly, implying that now is the good time for investors to acquire commercial bank shares if they plan to hold them for a long period.  *The Relative Strength Index (RSI) is a momentum oscillator that measures the speed and change of price movements. The RSI oscillates between zero and 100. Traditionally the RSI is considered overbought when above 70 and oversold when below 30.  Similarly, in the table above we can see by what percentage the prices of scrips have fallen from their 52 weeks high point. Himalayan Bank’s price has fallen by 50%, which might be because its shares weren't traded for a long period of time due to its canceled merger with Nepal Investment Bank and later due to the process of acquiring Civil Bank. Nonetheless, for a stable sector like commercial bank even a two digit decrement is huge and that too in short span of time.   Any country’s stock market should represent both the state of the economy and its pace of expansion. That isn't the case, though, for economies in developing countries like ours, and it's mainly because of a severe dearth of diversification. Commercial banks still hold a huge stake in the Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE), accounting for about 35% of its market value. Nabil Bank is responsible for 6% of the entire market capitalization. Due to their large capital, commercial banks are also considered low-risk businesses. Price activity shows that these stocks stay away from unexpected fluctuations. Apart from commercial banks, development banks, financial institutions, microfinance groups, and other companies like insurance companies also have a good presence in the stock market. Commercial banks, which include a broad range of institutions and are the cornerstone of our nation's financial system, will be the focus of this article rather than entire BFIs. Of the prior 28 commercial banks in Nepal, the total number of commercial banks have reduced to 21 due to merger and acquisitions. 20 commercials as of now are publicly traded in the secondary market (NEPSE). The total market capitalization of NEPSE as of March 22, 2023 stands at Rs. 2,793,407.21 million, out of which the total market capitalization of a commercial bank is Rs 961,590,187,906. The NEPSE index is highly dependent on the commercial bank sector, which makes up a significant percentage of market capitalization, so the context mentioned above is crucial.  The market has been in a bear market since the bull market of 2021, and despite reassurance from analysts, the index has fallen even further. The majority of commercial banks are currently extremely near to their 52-week low point. This is shown in the chart below:  In many banks' instances, the Last Trading Price (LTP), which is calculated as of March 22, 2023, has come very close to the 52-week low. However, we also need to take into account the reality that many banks paid out dividend using profits from the previous fiscal year - 2078/79. As a result, the LTP has been modified to apply to any bonuses shares whose Book Closure has been completed as of March 22, 23. *The bonus dividend of only Nepal Investment Bank prior to the merger with Mega Bank has been considered for Bonus adjustment of NIMB - Nepal Investment Mega Bank.  Even after adjustment of LTP after bonus, if we compare it with 52 weeks low, there isn't much discrepancy. Laxmi Bank almost is now at a 52-week low. Similarly, other banks like NMB, NBL, SRBL, and CZBIL are also not much higher than their lowest points. On the positive side, when we look at the 52-week low data for commercial banks, we can see that the RSI (Relative Strength Index) is almost at 30, and the prices in the 52-week low are dropping rapidly, implying that now is the good time for investors to acquire commercial bank shares if they plan to hold them for a long period.  *The Relative Strength Index (RSI) is a momentum oscillator that measures the speed and change of price movements. The RSI oscillates between zero and 100. Traditionally the RSI is considered overbought when above 70 and oversold when below 30.  Similarly, in the table above we can see by what percentage the prices of scrips have fallen from their 52 weeks high point. Himalayan Bank’s price has fallen by 50%, which might be because its shares weren't traded for a long period of time due to its canceled merger with Nepal Investment Bank and later due to the process of acquiring Civil Bank. Nonetheless, for a stable sector like commercial bank even a two digit decrement is huge and that too in short span of time.   "
2023-03-22,NISSAN Partners with Nabil Bank for Easy EV and Non-EV Financing,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nissan-partners-with-nabil-bank-for-easy-ev-and-non-ev-financing-2023-03-22,"Pioneer MotoCorp Pvt. Ltd., the authorized distributor of Nissan vehicles in Nepal, and Nabil Bank have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to collaborate for EV and Non-EV financing of Nissan vehicles. As per the MoU, Nabil Bank will provide up to 80% bank financing on Nissan electric vehicles (Personal Name) and 70% on Firm name, up to 70% percent bank financing on Non-electric vehicles (Firm), and up to 50% percent bank financing on Non-electric vehicles (Personal Name) on Nissan vehicles. This collaboration aims to offer easy retail financing for customers looking to purchase vehicles from Nissan. As per the agreement, customers will get easy access to loan facilities from all branches of Nabil Bank with an interest rate of Base Rate + 3.50% to 5% to which the effective rate will range from 13.60% to 15.10%  for tenure-up to 7 years. With only a 20 percent down payment, customers can now own a Nissan electric vehicle. The loan will be floated in line with the related directives and guidelines of Nepal Rastra Bank. The scheme will be valid all over Nepal between Pioneer Motocorp Authorized dealers and Nabil Bank. Pioneer MotoCorp Pvt. Ltd., the authorized distributor of Nissan vehicles in Nepal, and Nabil Bank have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to collaborate for EV and Non-EV financing of Nissan vehicles. As per the MoU, Nabil Bank will provide up to 80% bank financing on Nissan electric vehicles (Personal Name) and 70% on Firm name, up to 70% percent bank financing on Non-electric vehicles (Firm), and up to 50% percent bank financing on Non-electric vehicles (Personal Name) on Nissan vehicles. This collaboration aims to offer easy retail financing for customers looking to purchase vehicles from Nissan. As per the agreement, customers will get easy access to loan facilities from all branches of Nabil Bank with an interest rate of Base Rate + 3.50% to 5% to which the effective rate will range from 13.60% to 15.10%  for tenure-up to 7 years. With only a 20 percent down payment, customers can now own a Nissan electric vehicle. The loan will be floated in line with the related directives and guidelines of Nepal Rastra Bank. The scheme will be valid all over Nepal between Pioneer Motocorp Authorized dealers and Nabil Bank. Pioneer MotoCorp Pvt. Ltd., the authorized distributor of Nissan vehicles in Nepal, and Nabil Bank have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to collaborate for EV and Non-EV financing of Nissan vehicles. As per the MoU, Nabil Bank will provide up to 80% bank financing on Nissan electric vehicles (Personal Name) and 70% on Firm name, up to 70% percent bank financing on Non-electric vehicles (Firm), and up to 50% percent bank financing on Non-electric vehicles (Personal Name) on Nissan vehicles. This collaboration aims to offer easy retail financing for customers looking to purchase vehicles from Nissan. As per the agreement, customers will get easy access to loan facilities from all branches of Nabil Bank with an interest rate of Base Rate + 3.50% to 5% to which the effective rate will range from 13.60% to 15.10%  for tenure-up to 7 years. With only a 20 percent down payment, customers can now own a Nissan electric vehicle. The loan will be floated in line with the related directives and guidelines of Nepal Rastra Bank. The scheme will be valid all over Nepal between Pioneer Motocorp Authorized dealers and Nabil Bank. "
2023-03-17,ICRA Nepal places Ratings of Nabil Bank on Watch with Negative Implications; Rs 2 Arba worth debentures of then NB Bank receives such a rating,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/icra-nepal-places-ratings-of-nabil-bank-on-watch-with-negative-implications-rs-2-arba-worth-debentures-of-then-nb-bank-receives-such-a-rating-2023-03-17,"ICRA Nepal Limited has placed Ratings of Nabil Bank Limited on ‘Watch with Negative Implications’. As per the report, the rating agency has assigned Issuer Rating ICRANP-IR AA- “placed on watch With Negative Implications” to NPR 2,000 million worth of Subordinated Debenture issued by erstwhile Nepal Bangladesh Bank Issuers with rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA and Instruments with Rating of [ICRANP] LAA are considered to have high degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such Issuers and instruments carry very low credit risk. *The Rating is only an opinion on the general creditworthiness of the rated entity and not specific to any particular debt instrument. **Debenture Rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities nor it is a comment on the price or valuation of securities issued by company. For the Rating categories AA through to C the sign of + (plus) or – (minus) may be appended to the Rating symbols to indicate their relative position within the Rating categories concerned. Thus the Rating of AA+ is one notch higher than AA, while AA- is one notch lower than AA. ICRA Nepal Limited has placed Ratings of Nabil Bank Limited on ‘Watch with Negative Implications’. As per the report, the rating agency has assigned Issuer Rating ICRANP-IR AA- “placed on watch With Negative Implications” to NPR 2,000 million worth of Subordinated Debenture issued by erstwhile Nepal Bangladesh Bank Issuers with rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA and Instruments with Rating of [ICRANP] LAA are considered to have high degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such Issuers and instruments carry very low credit risk. *The Rating is only an opinion on the general creditworthiness of the rated entity and not specific to any particular debt instrument. **Debenture Rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities nor it is a comment on the price or valuation of securities issued by company. For the Rating categories AA through to C the sign of + (plus) or – (minus) may be appended to the Rating symbols to indicate their relative position within the Rating categories concerned. Thus the Rating of AA+ is one notch higher than AA, while AA- is one notch lower than AA. ICRA Nepal Limited has placed Ratings of Nabil Bank Limited on ‘Watch with Negative Implications’. As per the report, the rating agency has assigned Issuer Rating ICRANP-IR AA- “placed on watch With Negative Implications” to NPR 2,000 million worth of Subordinated Debenture issued by erstwhile Nepal Bangladesh Bank Issuers with rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA and Instruments with Rating of [ICRANP] LAA are considered to have high degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such Issuers and instruments carry very low credit risk. *The Rating is only an opinion on the general creditworthiness of the rated entity and not specific to any particular debt instrument. **Debenture Rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities nor it is a comment on the price or valuation of securities issued by company. For the Rating categories AA through to C the sign of + (plus) or – (minus) may be appended to the Rating symbols to indicate their relative position within the Rating categories concerned. Thus the Rating of AA+ is one notch higher than AA, while AA- is one notch lower than AA. "
2023-03-12,Nabil Bank organizes workshop to deal with workplace-based violence; 70 employees participate to know about violence and ways to tackle them,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-organizes-workshop-to-deal-with-workplace-based-violence-70-employees-participate-to-know-about-violence-and-ways-to-tackle-them-2023-03-12,"Nabil Bank has organized workshop for its employees to prevent workplace-based violence. The event saw participation from 70 employees of the bank which was facilitated by the organization Fight Back where the primary aim was to educate the employees about the different workplace related violence and the ways to challenge them, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has organized workshop for its employees to prevent workplace-based violence. The event saw participation from 70 employees of the bank which was facilitated by the organization Fight Back where the primary aim was to educate the employees about the different workplace related violence and the ways to challenge them, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has organized workshop for its employees to prevent workplace-based violence. The event saw participation from 70 employees of the bank which was facilitated by the organization Fight Back where the primary aim was to educate the employees about the different workplace related violence and the ways to challenge them, as per the media statement. "
2023-03-10,18.50% Bonus Shares of Nabil Bank Now Listed in NEPSE,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/1850-bonus-shares-of-nabil-bank-now-listed-in-nepse-2023-03-10,"42,240,881 unit bonus shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) have been listed in NEPSE. The bank convened its 38th AGM for the FY 2078/79 on 29th Poush, 2079. The company endorsed a 30% dividend for FY 2078/79. The board of directors meeting on Mangsir 25 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 22.83 Arba. 18.50% bonus shares worth Rs 4.22 Arba and 11.5% cash dividend (including bonus shares tax purposes) worth Rs 2.61 Arba were proposed. The same bonus shares are now listed in NEPSE. NABIL closed at Rs. 647 yesterday. 42,240,881 unit bonus shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) have been listed in NEPSE. The bank convened its 38th AGM for the FY 2078/79 on 29th Poush, 2079. The company endorsed a 30% dividend for FY 2078/79. The board of directors meeting on Mangsir 25 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 22.83 Arba. 18.50% bonus shares worth Rs 4.22 Arba and 11.5% cash dividend (including bonus shares tax purposes) worth Rs 2.61 Arba were proposed. The same bonus shares are now listed in NEPSE. NABIL closed at Rs. 647 yesterday. 42,240,881 unit bonus shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) have been listed in NEPSE. The bank convened its 38th AGM for the FY 2078/79 on 29th Poush, 2079. The company endorsed a 30% dividend for FY 2078/79. The board of directors meeting on Mangsir 25 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 22.83 Arba. 18.50% bonus shares worth Rs 4.22 Arba and 11.5% cash dividend (including bonus shares tax purposes) worth Rs 2.61 Arba were proposed. The same bonus shares are now listed in NEPSE. NABIL closed at Rs. 647 yesterday. "
2023-02-22,"Nabil Bank Auctioning 300,000 Units Promoter Shares to the General Public and Institutions From Today",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-auctioning-300000-units-promoter-shares-to-the-general-public-and-institutions-from-today-2023-02-22,"The existing promoters of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) are selling its 3,00,000 units promoter share in an auction from today i.e. on 10th Falgun to 25th Falgun, 2079. 3,00,000 units of promoter shares will be auctioned. Individual investors, companies, and institutions are all eligible to bid in an auction. Rs. 475 is the minimum bid rate. The minimum bid quantity for promoters’ shares is 1000 units. Although bidders can bid for the entirety of the issue, they are required to abide by the Nepal Rastra Bank's rule not to exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Sunrise Capital Limited is the auction manager. Bids will open at the premises of the auction manager on Falgun 28 starting at 11 am that day. Auction Notice The existing promoters of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) are selling its 3,00,000 units promoter share in an auction from today i.e. on 10th Falgun to 25th Falgun, 2079. 3,00,000 units of promoter shares will be auctioned. Individual investors, companies, and institutions are all eligible to bid in an auction. Rs. 475 is the minimum bid rate. The minimum bid quantity for promoters’ shares is 1000 units. Although bidders can bid for the entirety of the issue, they are required to abide by the Nepal Rastra Bank's rule not to exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Sunrise Capital Limited is the auction manager. Bids will open at the premises of the auction manager on Falgun 28 starting at 11 am that day. Auction Notice The existing promoters of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) are selling its 3,00,000 units promoter share in an auction from today i.e. on 10th Falgun to 25th Falgun, 2079. 3,00,000 units of promoter shares will be auctioned. Individual investors, companies, and institutions are all eligible to bid in an auction. Rs. 475 is the minimum bid rate. The minimum bid quantity for promoters’ shares is 1000 units. Although bidders can bid for the entirety of the issue, they are required to abide by the Nepal Rastra Bank's rule not to exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Sunrise Capital Limited is the auction manager. Bids will open at the premises of the auction manager on Falgun 28 starting at 11 am that day. Auction Notice "
2023-02-21,Nabil Bank inks MoU with FWEAN; to promote businesses of women entrepreneurs by having stalls of their products at its branches,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inks-mou-with-fwean-to-promote-businesses-of-women-entrepreneurs-by-having-stalls-of-their-products-at-its-branches-2023-02-21,"Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with the Federation of Women Entrepreneurs Association Nepal to boost the productivity of women business leaders.  The MoU was signed between the CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana and chairman of the association Ms. Niru Rayamajhi Khatri amid a program, following which the bank will provide space for the products of female entrepreneurs at its different branches while also will provide information and opportunities in Nabil SSE program, as per the media statement. The bank has been running digo banking program from its 100 branches across the nation so far to promote small and locally run enterprises, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with the Federation of Women Entrepreneurs Association Nepal to boost the productivity of women business leaders.  The MoU was signed between the CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana and chairman of the association Ms. Niru Rayamajhi Khatri amid a program, following which the bank will provide space for the products of female entrepreneurs at its different branches while also will provide information and opportunities in Nabil SSE program, as per the media statement. The bank has been running digo banking program from its 100 branches across the nation so far to promote small and locally run enterprises, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with the Federation of Women Entrepreneurs Association Nepal to boost the productivity of women business leaders.  The MoU was signed between the CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana and chairman of the association Ms. Niru Rayamajhi Khatri amid a program, following which the bank will provide space for the products of female entrepreneurs at its different branches while also will provide information and opportunities in Nabil SSE program, as per the media statement. The bank has been running digo banking program from its 100 branches across the nation so far to promote small and locally run enterprises, as per the media statement. "
2023-02-08,Nabil Bank Distributing Interest to Unitholders of These Three Debentures,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-distributing-interest-to-unitholders-of-these-three-debentures-2023-02-08,"Nabil Bank Limited has published a notice regarding interest payment of ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"", ""8% Nabil Debenture 2085"" and ""10.25% NBB Debenture 2085"" to the debenture holders. Unitholders who have not yet received the interest amount in their account are requested to update the bank account number in their beneficiary account (BOID No.) and contact the debenture registrar of Nabil Bank, Nabil Investment Banking Limited, Naxal Kathmandu to receive the interest amount of their bond. Also, the investors are requested to update the Permanent Account Number (PAN) in their beneficiary accounts for E-TDS purposes. Similarly, debenture holders who have pledged their debentures must submit the approval letter from the respective banks and financial institutions to receive the interest amount.   Notice Nabil Bank Limited has published a notice regarding interest payment of ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"", ""8% Nabil Debenture 2085"" and ""10.25% NBB Debenture 2085"" to the debenture holders. Unitholders who have not yet received the interest amount in their account are requested to update the bank account number in their beneficiary account (BOID No.) and contact the debenture registrar of Nabil Bank, Nabil Investment Banking Limited, Naxal Kathmandu to receive the interest amount of their bond. Also, the investors are requested to update the Permanent Account Number (PAN) in their beneficiary accounts for E-TDS purposes. Similarly, debenture holders who have pledged their debentures must submit the approval letter from the respective banks and financial institutions to receive the interest amount.   Notice Nabil Bank Limited has published a notice regarding interest payment of ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"", ""8% Nabil Debenture 2085"" and ""10.25% NBB Debenture 2085"" to the debenture holders. Unitholders who have not yet received the interest amount in their account are requested to update the bank account number in their beneficiary account (BOID No.) and contact the debenture registrar of Nabil Bank, Nabil Investment Banking Limited, Naxal Kathmandu to receive the interest amount of their bond. Also, the investors are requested to update the Permanent Account Number (PAN) in their beneficiary accounts for E-TDS purposes. Similarly, debenture holders who have pledged their debentures must submit the approval letter from the respective banks and financial institutions to receive the interest amount.   Notice "
2023-02-08,Nabil Bank Distributed 11.5% Cash Dividends Directly to Shareholders' Bank Accounts,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-distributed-115-cash-dividends-directly-to-shareholders-bank-accounts-2023-02-08,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has distributed 11.5% cash dividends directly to the bank accounts of its shareholders and has urged them to dematerialize their shares. The company convened its 38th AGM for the FY 2078/79 on 29th Poush, 2079. The company endorsed a 30% dividend for FY 2078/79. The board of directors meeting on Mangsir 25 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 22.83 Arba. 18.50% bonus shares worth Rs 4.22 Arba and 11.5% cash dividend (including bonus shares tax purposes) worth Rs 2.61 Arba were proposed. The same cash dividend has now been distributed. Also, the company has urged the shareholders to dematerialize their shares if they haven't updated their bank information in the Demat account are requested to do so in order to receive the dividend. Additionally, if eligible investors had taken a loan against the shares of the company before the book closure date i.e. Poush 18 should present a No Objection Letter from their lending institution to receive the dividend. Announcement Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has distributed 11.5% cash dividends directly to the bank accounts of its shareholders and has urged them to dematerialize their shares. The company convened its 38th AGM for the FY 2078/79 on 29th Poush, 2079. The company endorsed a 30% dividend for FY 2078/79. The board of directors meeting on Mangsir 25 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 22.83 Arba. 18.50% bonus shares worth Rs 4.22 Arba and 11.5% cash dividend (including bonus shares tax purposes) worth Rs 2.61 Arba were proposed. The same cash dividend has now been distributed. Also, the company has urged the shareholders to dematerialize their shares if they haven't updated their bank information in the Demat account are requested to do so in order to receive the dividend. Additionally, if eligible investors had taken a loan against the shares of the company before the book closure date i.e. Poush 18 should present a No Objection Letter from their lending institution to receive the dividend. Announcement Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has distributed 11.5% cash dividends directly to the bank accounts of its shareholders and has urged them to dematerialize their shares. The company convened its 38th AGM for the FY 2078/79 on 29th Poush, 2079. The company endorsed a 30% dividend for FY 2078/79. The board of directors meeting on Mangsir 25 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 22.83 Arba. 18.50% bonus shares worth Rs 4.22 Arba and 11.5% cash dividend (including bonus shares tax purposes) worth Rs 2.61 Arba were proposed. The same cash dividend has now been distributed. Also, the company has urged the shareholders to dematerialize their shares if they haven't updated their bank information in the Demat account are requested to do so in order to receive the dividend. Additionally, if eligible investors had taken a loan against the shares of the company before the book closure date i.e. Poush 18 should present a No Objection Letter from their lending institution to receive the dividend. Announcement "
2023-02-02,Xiaomi Nepal collaborates with Nabil Bank; Now get Xiaomi devices on 0% EMI,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/xiaomi-nepal-collaborates-with-nabil-bank-now-get-xiaomi-devices-on-0-emi-2023-02-02,"Xiaomi Nepal, a global technology leader has announced an amazing 0% EMI offer on the purchase of any Xiaomi, POCO or Redmi smartphone, TV and laptop. Xiaomi Nepal has launched the offer in collaboration with one of the leading banks of Nepal, Nabil Bank. Commenting on the offer launch, Amit Kumar Panda, the Country General Manager of Xiaomi Nepal said, “We’d like to start this year along our Mi fans who share a great enthusiasm on our products. For the first time, Xiaomi has launched the 0% EMI offer in Nepal with the aim of making the country more digitally connected. Xiaomi brings this amazing offer to support our consumers’ desire to use the latest Xiaomi, POCO or Redmi devices without much financial burden. With this offer, Xiaomi Nepal wishes to increase the accessibility of our products. We hope our consumers are equally excited as we are to launch this offer and grab the best mobile deal in Nepal.” Now, customers can keep themselves digitally updated by enjoying 0% EMI on the purchase of any device from POCO, Xiaomi or Redmi including TVs, laptop and smartphones. The offer is valid for 6 months from the purchase of Xiaomi products via Nabil Credit Card. The first-year annual fee of Nabil bank credit card will be waived off for new applicants. Xiaomi Nepal, a global technology leader has announced an amazing 0% EMI offer on the purchase of any Xiaomi, POCO or Redmi smartphone, TV and laptop. Xiaomi Nepal has launched the offer in collaboration with one of the leading banks of Nepal, Nabil Bank. Commenting on the offer launch, Amit Kumar Panda, the Country General Manager of Xiaomi Nepal said, “We’d like to start this year along our Mi fans who share a great enthusiasm on our products. For the first time, Xiaomi has launched the 0% EMI offer in Nepal with the aim of making the country more digitally connected. Xiaomi brings this amazing offer to support our consumers’ desire to use the latest Xiaomi, POCO or Redmi devices without much financial burden. With this offer, Xiaomi Nepal wishes to increase the accessibility of our products. We hope our consumers are equally excited as we are to launch this offer and grab the best mobile deal in Nepal.” Now, customers can keep themselves digitally updated by enjoying 0% EMI on the purchase of any device from POCO, Xiaomi or Redmi including TVs, laptop and smartphones. The offer is valid for 6 months from the purchase of Xiaomi products via Nabil Credit Card. The first-year annual fee of Nabil bank credit card will be waived off for new applicants. Xiaomi Nepal, a global technology leader has announced an amazing 0% EMI offer on the purchase of any Xiaomi, POCO or Redmi smartphone, TV and laptop. Xiaomi Nepal has launched the offer in collaboration with one of the leading banks of Nepal, Nabil Bank. Commenting on the offer launch, Amit Kumar Panda, the Country General Manager of Xiaomi Nepal said, “We’d like to start this year along our Mi fans who share a great enthusiasm on our products. For the first time, Xiaomi has launched the 0% EMI offer in Nepal with the aim of making the country more digitally connected. Xiaomi brings this amazing offer to support our consumers’ desire to use the latest Xiaomi, POCO or Redmi devices without much financial burden. With this offer, Xiaomi Nepal wishes to increase the accessibility of our products. We hope our consumers are equally excited as we are to launch this offer and grab the best mobile deal in Nepal.” Now, customers can keep themselves digitally updated by enjoying 0% EMI on the purchase of any device from POCO, Xiaomi or Redmi including TVs, laptop and smartphones. The offer is valid for 6 months from the purchase of Xiaomi products via Nabil Credit Card. The first-year annual fee of Nabil bank credit card will be waived off for new applicants. "
2023-01-30,"1,50,000 Promoter Shares of Nabil Bank in Auction from Today",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/150000-promoter-shares-of-nabil-bank-in-auction-from-today-2023-01-30,"The existing promoters of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) are auctioning 1,50,000 units of shares to promoter shareholders from today i.e 16h Magh, 2079. Earlier, the founder shareholders of NABIL had published a notice regarding the auction of their 50,000 and 100,000 units of promoter shares on Bhadra 13 and Mangsir 11, 2079 respectively. Since not enough applications were received, the shareholders have again published a notice to auction the same 1,50,000 units of shares to the promoter shareholders from today. Only existing promoters are eligible to bid for the auction within an additional period of 7 days from the date of publication of this notice, i.e. 16th Magh. The minimum bid rate for the auction is Rs. 450. The shareholders should submit their bids at the central office of the bank located at Tindhara, Binamarg, Kathmandu.   Auction notice The existing promoters of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) are auctioning 1,50,000 units of shares to promoter shareholders from today i.e 16h Magh, 2079. Earlier, the founder shareholders of NABIL had published a notice regarding the auction of their 50,000 and 100,000 units of promoter shares on Bhadra 13 and Mangsir 11, 2079 respectively. Since not enough applications were received, the shareholders have again published a notice to auction the same 1,50,000 units of shares to the promoter shareholders from today. Only existing promoters are eligible to bid for the auction within an additional period of 7 days from the date of publication of this notice, i.e. 16th Magh. The minimum bid rate for the auction is Rs. 450. The shareholders should submit their bids at the central office of the bank located at Tindhara, Binamarg, Kathmandu.   Auction notice The existing promoters of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) are auctioning 1,50,000 units of shares to promoter shareholders from today i.e 16h Magh, 2079. Earlier, the founder shareholders of NABIL had published a notice regarding the auction of their 50,000 and 100,000 units of promoter shares on Bhadra 13 and Mangsir 11, 2079 respectively. Since not enough applications were received, the shareholders have again published a notice to auction the same 1,50,000 units of shares to the promoter shareholders from today. Only existing promoters are eligible to bid for the auction within an additional period of 7 days from the date of publication of this notice, i.e. 16th Magh. The minimum bid rate for the auction is Rs. 450. The shareholders should submit their bids at the central office of the bank located at Tindhara, Binamarg, Kathmandu.   Auction notice "
2023-01-27,Nabil Bank partners with CG Digital and LG Lifestyle; to provide 20% discount to its card customers for their purchases,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-partners-with-cg-digital-and-lg-lifestyle-to-provide-20-discount-to-its-card-customers-for-their-purchases-2023-01-27,Nabil Bank has collaborated with CG Digital and LG Lifestyle to provide a 20% discount to its customers while purchasing electronic goods from different outlets of CG Digital and LG Lifestyle and making their payments via bank’s cards. The bank currently has 240 branches and 280 ATM outlets across the nation. Nabil Bank has collaborated with CG Digital and LG Lifestyle to provide a 20% discount to its customers while purchasing electronic goods from different outlets of CG Digital and LG Lifestyle and making their payments via bank’s cards. The bank currently has 240 branches and 280 ATM outlets across the nation. Nabil Bank has collaborated with CG Digital and LG Lifestyle to provide a 20% discount to its customers while purchasing electronic goods from different outlets of CG Digital and LG Lifestyle and making their payments via bank’s cards. The bank currently has 240 branches and 280 ATM outlets across the nation. 
2023-01-27,Interest Amount of Rs. 13.33 Arba Is Yet To Be Received by Commercial Banks; A Second Quarter Comprehensive Analysis of Major Indicators for all 22 Commercial Banks,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/interest-amount-of-rs-1333-arba-is-yet-to-be-received-by-commercial-banks-a-second-quarter-comprehensive-analysis-of-major-indicators-for-all-22-commercial-banks-2023-01-27,"All 22 commercial banks have unveiled their second quarter report of the current fiscal year 2079/80. Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the Lower Credit Expansion, Liquidity Shortage, Higher Treasury Bill rates, and inflation rates, Banks have reported slight improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter.  Keeping all the speculation aside, in this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks as of Q2 of Fiscal year 2079/80 and doing a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. Note: Out of the previous 26 commercial banks in Nepal, Prabhu Bank acquired Century Commercial Bank at a swap ratio of 1:1. In the same vein, Nepal Investment Bank and Mega Bank started joint integrated transaction at a Swap Ratio -100:90, Global IME and Bank of Kathmandu also merged at a swap ratio of 1:1 and, Kumari Bank and NCC Bank started joint transaction in the name of 'Kumari Bank Limited'. Upon the joint transaction of above mentioned all commercial banks, the total number of A class banks is reduce to 22. And the listed number of commercial banks would be 21. (RBBL is not listed on NEPSE) On the other hand, Himalayan Bank signed MoU to acquire Civil Bank at a swap ratio of 100:80.28 and Laxmi Bank and Sunrise Bank also signed MoU for merger recently.  Net profit: As per the net profit of the second quarter of FY 2079/80, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs.3.42 Arba with a growth of 56.78% as compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year. Similarly, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) also reported net profit of Rs. 3.27 Arba with a growth of 36.39%, hence it stands in the second position to accumulate higher profits for the second quarter. In the third position, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a net profit of Rs 2.78 Arba. Also, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported highest growth in net profit by 89.05% in this quarter.  Out of 22 commercial banks, the net profit of the newly merged banks - GBIME, NIMB and KBL is not compared with the second quarter of the relevant quarter. Since, Prabhu Bank conducted an amalgamation in the nature of acquisition with Century Commercial Bank, the net profit of PRVU is taken into consideration for this analysis.  On the other hand, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) reported net loss of Rs. 13 Crores. In the same vein, Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) net profit declined by 32.15 in the second quarter of F.Y 2079/80. Profit for the period:  Transfer to Regulatory Reserve: All scheduled commercial banks are required to transfer the margin specified by Nepal Rastra Bank to the disclosed profits (before making adjustments/provisions for dividends) to Reserve Fund in accordance with instructions from NRB. The commercial banks have transferred a total of Rs. 13.33 Arba to regulatory reserves as of the second quarter of FY 79/80. In simple language, it indicates that the interest installment due date for loans and advances has accrued but that the banks have not yet received the interest amount. Likewise, if there is a delay in the payment of interest income then the banks have to set the specified amount to the regulatory reserves. Also, the amount transferred to the regulatory reserves cannot be distributed as a dividends to shareholders of the respective bank. As per the report, NIC Asia Bank has the highest amount towards the transfer to regulatory reserves amounting to Rs. 1.53 Arba. The bank did not propose dividends to the shareholders for the Fiscal Year 2078/79. On the other hand, transfer from regulatory reserve means the accrued interest which was not received in the previous quarter has been received in this quarter.  Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 35.77 Arba capital,  Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) with Rs. 34.13 Arba and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with Rs. 27.06 Arba paid-up capital.   Note: ADBL Capital includes Rs 5.43 Arba irredeemable non-cumulative preference shares. Reserve and surplus: With an industry average of Rs 11.69 Arba, 9 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 11.69 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.57 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 26.82 Arba, Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) has maintained the second position with Rs 22.15 Arba reserve and surplus fund and  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 20.28 Arba  Deposits from Customers: On an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 2.11 Kharba as a deposit. Only 8 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the second quarter of FY 2079/80,  Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 4.03 Kharba, Nepal Investment Mega Bank (NIMB) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 3.55 Kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 3.47 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Nepal Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 94.71 Arba.  Loans and advances to Customers: The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 3.63 kharba. Nepal Investment Mega Bank (NIMB) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 3.17 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 3.15 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 81.04 Arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.86 Kharba. 7 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.86 Kharba.  Net Interest Income: Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with an income of Rs 7.838 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 6.54 Arba and  NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 6.30 Arba.  Provisions for the period (Impairment/Reversal): Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 16.37 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 2.18 Arba followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with a total of Rs. 1.89 Arba. In the same vein, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the reversal of impairment charge for a loan and other losses of Rs. 48 Crores. * - Reversal and + Provision  Major indicators: Earnings per share: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 56.61 per share. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 37.19 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 34.68 per share. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) stays at the bottom with a negative earning of Rs. 4.43 per share.   The average EPS of 22 commercial banks stands at Rs 19.75. Only 9 commercial banks provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 251.63 which belongs to Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL). NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is in the second position with Rs 243.97. Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q2 of FY 2079/80 i.e. Rs 238.02. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the least net worth of Rs 135.96 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 175.50 per share. 8 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. P/E Ratio: Laxmi Bank Limited (LBL)  has the least PE ratio of 11.02 times. It is followed by NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with a PE ratio of 11.88 times.  (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios but rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR): In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Civil Bank Nepal Limited (CBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.08%. This is followed by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB)  with a CAR of 14.91%. CAR is the ratio of a bank’s capital in relation to its risk weighted assets and current liabilities.  Non-Performing Loan: In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) reported the lowest NPL of 0.47% in terms of asset quality. SBI is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.55%.  Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has reported the highest NPL of 4.52%, followed by Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) with an NPL of 3.77%   Others: Cost of Funds: The term cost of funds refers to how much banks and financial institutions spend in order to acquire money to lend to their customers. The lower the cost of funds, the better because it ultimately reduces the cost of banks. As per reports, Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the highest Cost of Funds of 9.49%, whereas Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) the lowest cost of funds of 7.05%. CD Ratio: The CD ratio refers to the credit-deposit ratio in banking parlance. It tells how much of the money banks have raised in the form of deposits has been deployed as loans. Likewise, Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has reported highest CD ratio of 89.58%, whereas Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest CD ratio of 78.6%. Base Rate and Interest Spread: Base rate is defined as the minimum interest rate set by the NRB below which Commercial banks are not permitted to lend to their customers. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) reports highest base rate of 11.73%, and Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has lowest base rate of 9.67%. Similarly, the net interest rate spread is the difference between the interest rate a bank pays to depositors and the interest rate it receives from loans to consumers. Here, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest interest spread of 4.48%, whereas Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL)) has the lowest interest spread of 3.74% for the second quarter of FY 2079/80. Also, As per NRB instructions, commercial banks need to maintain spread rate to 4 from existing 4.4%  by the end of the current FY 2079/80. Cost of Funds, CD Ratio, Base Rates and Interest Spread:   Finally, the table below shows provides a full picture of major indicators of 22 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 2079-2080.  All 22 commercial banks have unveiled their second quarter report of the current fiscal year 2079/80. Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the Lower Credit Expansion, Liquidity Shortage, Higher Treasury Bill rates, and inflation rates, Banks have reported slight improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter.  Keeping all the speculation aside, in this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks as of Q2 of Fiscal year 2079/80 and doing a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. Note: Out of the previous 26 commercial banks in Nepal, Prabhu Bank acquired Century Commercial Bank at a swap ratio of 1:1. In the same vein, Nepal Investment Bank and Mega Bank started joint integrated transaction at a Swap Ratio -100:90, Global IME and Bank of Kathmandu also merged at a swap ratio of 1:1 and, Kumari Bank and NCC Bank started joint transaction in the name of 'Kumari Bank Limited'. Upon the joint transaction of above mentioned all commercial banks, the total number of A class banks is reduce to 22. And the listed number of commercial banks would be 21. (RBBL is not listed on NEPSE) On the other hand, Himalayan Bank signed MoU to acquire Civil Bank at a swap ratio of 100:80.28 and Laxmi Bank and Sunrise Bank also signed MoU for merger recently.  Net profit: As per the net profit of the second quarter of FY 2079/80, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs.3.42 Arba with a growth of 56.78% as compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year. Similarly, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) also reported net profit of Rs. 3.27 Arba with a growth of 36.39%, hence it stands in the second position to accumulate higher profits for the second quarter. In the third position, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a net profit of Rs 2.78 Arba. Also, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported highest growth in net profit by 89.05% in this quarter.  Out of 22 commercial banks, the net profit of the newly merged banks - GBIME, NIMB and KBL is not compared with the second quarter of the relevant quarter. Since, Prabhu Bank conducted an amalgamation in the nature of acquisition with Century Commercial Bank, the net profit of PRVU is taken into consideration for this analysis.  On the other hand, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) reported net loss of Rs. 13 Crores. In the same vein, Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) net profit declined by 32.15 in the second quarter of F.Y 2079/80. Profit for the period:  Transfer to Regulatory Reserve: All scheduled commercial banks are required to transfer the margin specified by Nepal Rastra Bank to the disclosed profits (before making adjustments/provisions for dividends) to Reserve Fund in accordance with instructions from NRB. The commercial banks have transferred a total of Rs. 13.33 Arba to regulatory reserves as of the second quarter of FY 79/80. In simple language, it indicates that the interest installment due date for loans and advances has accrued but that the banks have not yet received the interest amount. Likewise, if there is a delay in the payment of interest income then the banks have to set the specified amount to the regulatory reserves. Also, the amount transferred to the regulatory reserves cannot be distributed as a dividends to shareholders of the respective bank. As per the report, NIC Asia Bank has the highest amount towards the transfer to regulatory reserves amounting to Rs. 1.53 Arba. The bank did not propose dividends to the shareholders for the Fiscal Year 2078/79. On the other hand, transfer from regulatory reserve means the accrued interest which was not received in the previous quarter has been received in this quarter.  Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 35.77 Arba capital,  Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) with Rs. 34.13 Arba and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with Rs. 27.06 Arba paid-up capital.   Note: ADBL Capital includes Rs 5.43 Arba irredeemable non-cumulative preference shares. Reserve and surplus: With an industry average of Rs 11.69 Arba, 9 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 11.69 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.57 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 26.82 Arba, Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) has maintained the second position with Rs 22.15 Arba reserve and surplus fund and  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 20.28 Arba  Deposits from Customers: On an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 2.11 Kharba as a deposit. Only 8 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the second quarter of FY 2079/80,  Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 4.03 Kharba, Nepal Investment Mega Bank (NIMB) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 3.55 Kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 3.47 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Nepal Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 94.71 Arba.  Loans and advances to Customers: The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 3.63 kharba. Nepal Investment Mega Bank (NIMB) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 3.17 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 3.15 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 81.04 Arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.86 Kharba. 7 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.86 Kharba.  Net Interest Income: Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with an income of Rs 7.838 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 6.54 Arba and  NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 6.30 Arba.  Provisions for the period (Impairment/Reversal): Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 16.37 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 2.18 Arba followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with a total of Rs. 1.89 Arba. In the same vein, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the reversal of impairment charge for a loan and other losses of Rs. 48 Crores. * - Reversal and + Provision  Major indicators: Earnings per share: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 56.61 per share. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 37.19 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 34.68 per share. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) stays at the bottom with a negative earning of Rs. 4.43 per share.   The average EPS of 22 commercial banks stands at Rs 19.75. Only 9 commercial banks provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 251.63 which belongs to Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL). NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is in the second position with Rs 243.97. Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q2 of FY 2079/80 i.e. Rs 238.02. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the least net worth of Rs 135.96 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 175.50 per share. 8 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. P/E Ratio: Laxmi Bank Limited (LBL)  has the least PE ratio of 11.02 times. It is followed by NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with a PE ratio of 11.88 times.  (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios but rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR): In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Civil Bank Nepal Limited (CBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.08%. This is followed by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB)  with a CAR of 14.91%. CAR is the ratio of a bank’s capital in relation to its risk weighted assets and current liabilities.  Non-Performing Loan: In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) reported the lowest NPL of 0.47% in terms of asset quality. SBI is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.55%.  Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has reported the highest NPL of 4.52%, followed by Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) with an NPL of 3.77%   Others: Cost of Funds: The term cost of funds refers to how much banks and financial institutions spend in order to acquire money to lend to their customers. The lower the cost of funds, the better because it ultimately reduces the cost of banks. As per reports, Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the highest Cost of Funds of 9.49%, whereas Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) the lowest cost of funds of 7.05%. CD Ratio: The CD ratio refers to the credit-deposit ratio in banking parlance. It tells how much of the money banks have raised in the form of deposits has been deployed as loans. Likewise, Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has reported highest CD ratio of 89.58%, whereas Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest CD ratio of 78.6%. Base Rate and Interest Spread: Base rate is defined as the minimum interest rate set by the NRB below which Commercial banks are not permitted to lend to their customers. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) reports highest base rate of 11.73%, and Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has lowest base rate of 9.67%. Similarly, the net interest rate spread is the difference between the interest rate a bank pays to depositors and the interest rate it receives from loans to consumers. Here, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest interest spread of 4.48%, whereas Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL)) has the lowest interest spread of 3.74% for the second quarter of FY 2079/80. Also, As per NRB instructions, commercial banks need to maintain spread rate to 4 from existing 4.4%  by the end of the current FY 2079/80. Cost of Funds, CD Ratio, Base Rates and Interest Spread:   Finally, the table below shows provides a full picture of major indicators of 22 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 2079-2080.  All 22 commercial banks have unveiled their second quarter report of the current fiscal year 2079/80. Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the Lower Credit Expansion, Liquidity Shortage, Higher Treasury Bill rates, and inflation rates, Banks have reported slight improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter.  Keeping all the speculation aside, in this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks as of Q2 of Fiscal year 2079/80 and doing a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. Note: Out of the previous 26 commercial banks in Nepal, Prabhu Bank acquired Century Commercial Bank at a swap ratio of 1:1. In the same vein, Nepal Investment Bank and Mega Bank started joint integrated transaction at a Swap Ratio -100:90, Global IME and Bank of Kathmandu also merged at a swap ratio of 1:1 and, Kumari Bank and NCC Bank started joint transaction in the name of 'Kumari Bank Limited'. Upon the joint transaction of above mentioned all commercial banks, the total number of A class banks is reduce to 22. And the listed number of commercial banks would be 21. (RBBL is not listed on NEPSE) On the other hand, Himalayan Bank signed MoU to acquire Civil Bank at a swap ratio of 100:80.28 and Laxmi Bank and Sunrise Bank also signed MoU for merger recently.  Net profit: As per the net profit of the second quarter of FY 2079/80, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs.3.42 Arba with a growth of 56.78% as compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year. Similarly, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) also reported net profit of Rs. 3.27 Arba with a growth of 36.39%, hence it stands in the second position to accumulate higher profits for the second quarter. In the third position, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a net profit of Rs 2.78 Arba. Also, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported highest growth in net profit by 89.05% in this quarter.  Out of 22 commercial banks, the net profit of the newly merged banks - GBIME, NIMB and KBL is not compared with the second quarter of the relevant quarter. Since, Prabhu Bank conducted an amalgamation in the nature of acquisition with Century Commercial Bank, the net profit of PRVU is taken into consideration for this analysis.  On the other hand, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) reported net loss of Rs. 13 Crores. In the same vein, Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) net profit declined by 32.15 in the second quarter of F.Y 2079/80. Profit for the period:  Transfer to Regulatory Reserve: All scheduled commercial banks are required to transfer the margin specified by Nepal Rastra Bank to the disclosed profits (before making adjustments/provisions for dividends) to Reserve Fund in accordance with instructions from NRB. The commercial banks have transferred a total of Rs. 13.33 Arba to regulatory reserves as of the second quarter of FY 79/80. In simple language, it indicates that the interest installment due date for loans and advances has accrued but that the banks have not yet received the interest amount. Likewise, if there is a delay in the payment of interest income then the banks have to set the specified amount to the regulatory reserves. Also, the amount transferred to the regulatory reserves cannot be distributed as a dividends to shareholders of the respective bank. As per the report, NIC Asia Bank has the highest amount towards the transfer to regulatory reserves amounting to Rs. 1.53 Arba. The bank did not propose dividends to the shareholders for the Fiscal Year 2078/79. On the other hand, transfer from regulatory reserve means the accrued interest which was not received in the previous quarter has been received in this quarter.  Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 35.77 Arba capital,  Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) with Rs. 34.13 Arba and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with Rs. 27.06 Arba paid-up capital.   Note: ADBL Capital includes Rs 5.43 Arba irredeemable non-cumulative preference shares. Reserve and surplus: With an industry average of Rs 11.69 Arba, 9 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 11.69 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.57 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 26.82 Arba, Nepal Investment Mega Bank Limited (NIMB) has maintained the second position with Rs 22.15 Arba reserve and surplus fund and  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 20.28 Arba  Deposits from Customers: On an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 2.11 Kharba as a deposit. Only 8 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the second quarter of FY 2079/80,  Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 4.03 Kharba, Nepal Investment Mega Bank (NIMB) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 3.55 Kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 3.47 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Nepal Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 94.71 Arba.  Loans and advances to Customers: The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 3.63 kharba. Nepal Investment Mega Bank (NIMB) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 3.17 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 3.15 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 81.04 Arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.86 Kharba. 7 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.86 Kharba.  Net Interest Income: Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with an income of Rs 7.838 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 6.54 Arba and  NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 6.30 Arba.  Provisions for the period (Impairment/Reversal): Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 16.37 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 2.18 Arba followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with a total of Rs. 1.89 Arba. In the same vein, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the reversal of impairment charge for a loan and other losses of Rs. 48 Crores. * - Reversal and + Provision  Major indicators: Earnings per share: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 56.61 per share. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 37.19 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 34.68 per share. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) stays at the bottom with a negative earning of Rs. 4.43 per share.   The average EPS of 22 commercial banks stands at Rs 19.75. Only 9 commercial banks provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 251.63 which belongs to Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL). NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is in the second position with Rs 243.97. Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q2 of FY 2079/80 i.e. Rs 238.02. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the least net worth of Rs 135.96 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 175.50 per share. 8 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. P/E Ratio: Laxmi Bank Limited (LBL)  has the least PE ratio of 11.02 times. It is followed by NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with a PE ratio of 11.88 times.  (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios but rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR): In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Civil Bank Nepal Limited (CBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.08%. This is followed by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB)  with a CAR of 14.91%. CAR is the ratio of a bank’s capital in relation to its risk weighted assets and current liabilities.  Non-Performing Loan: In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) reported the lowest NPL of 0.47% in terms of asset quality. SBI is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.55%.  Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has reported the highest NPL of 4.52%, followed by Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) with an NPL of 3.77%   Others: Cost of Funds: The term cost of funds refers to how much banks and financial institutions spend in order to acquire money to lend to their customers. The lower the cost of funds, the better because it ultimately reduces the cost of banks. As per reports, Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the highest Cost of Funds of 9.49%, whereas Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) the lowest cost of funds of 7.05%. CD Ratio: The CD ratio refers to the credit-deposit ratio in banking parlance. It tells how much of the money banks have raised in the form of deposits has been deployed as loans. Likewise, Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has reported highest CD ratio of 89.58%, whereas Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest CD ratio of 78.6%. Base Rate and Interest Spread: Base rate is defined as the minimum interest rate set by the NRB below which Commercial banks are not permitted to lend to their customers. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) reports highest base rate of 11.73%, and Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has lowest base rate of 9.67%. Similarly, the net interest rate spread is the difference between the interest rate a bank pays to depositors and the interest rate it receives from loans to consumers. Here, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest interest spread of 4.48%, whereas Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL)) has the lowest interest spread of 3.74% for the second quarter of FY 2079/80. Also, As per NRB instructions, commercial banks need to maintain spread rate to 4 from existing 4.4%  by the end of the current FY 2079/80. Cost of Funds, CD Ratio, Base Rates and Interest Spread:   Finally, the table below shows provides a full picture of major indicators of 22 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 2079-2080.  "
2023-01-23,NABIL Stock Cheaper Than NICA: But Where Is It Headed?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-stock-cheaper-than-nica-but-where-is-it-headed-2023-01-23,"The secondary market stock of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has gone through a selling frenzy in the last few trading sessions. NABIL closed at Rs. 710.90 today. Meanwhile, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) shares were last priced at Rs. 835. If a company’s stock is priced higher than its competitors, it must be worth more than its competitors, right? The stock price of any company depends on countless factors other than the company’s real worth. Among all stock price constraints, Demand and Supply is one important factor. Some shareholders in NEPSE still take stock price information at face value. This article will examine NABIL, its financial strength, and its industry position. 1) But first, why did NABIL's stock price decline? Addressing the elephant in the room: Why did the share price of NABIL fall immediately? If one looks at the unadjusted stock price chart of NABIL, the stock shows a sharp gap down on January 02.   The stock closed the previous day at Rs. 854.50. The next day, it opened way below, at Rs. 735.50. While most experienced investors will realize why this happened, this effect may be startling for fresh investors. For lack of a better phrase, this phenomenon can be called the Dividend Effect. Explaining the Book Closure Effect/ Dividend Effect A company first declares a dividend for a certain fiscal year. It then announces a book closure date. Shareholders who own shares of the company before the book closure date are eligible for the dividend payout. NEPSE, the official stock exchange of Nepal, then adjusts the company’s stock price on the book closure date. The stock's value will then decrease approximately in line with the sum of dividends disbursed. However, this isn’t a bad thing for shareholders. If the company distributed a bonus dividend, shareholders now own more shares but with the same total monetary value, a result of the adjustment of stock price. Potential investors who haven’t bought the shares yet can do the same analysis on the company because the company’s basic fundamentals haven’t changed. Additionally, a company that distributes bonus shares does it to reinvest in its own business. A business that reinvests its profit to expand is considered a good company globally. Perhaps for this reason or another, shareholders instead believe that the stock price of a company will go up eventually in time after bonus shares adjustment. Dividend Effect in NABIL Nabil Bank recently convened its 38th AGM for the FY 2078-79 under the leadership of its chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudel. Apart from the regular financial reports, the AGM endorsed the board’s proposal to provide 18.5% bonus shares and 11.5% cash dividends to its shareholders from the profit it had made in the previous fiscal year. This is why the share price was adjusted on January 02, since the company had declared its book closure that day. Acquisition of NBB Bank Nabil Bank recently acquired Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited with a swap ratio of 100:43. Thus, 10,08,53,998 total shares of NBB were listed as additional NABIL shares after the joint operation. Merger and acquisition, in its essence, is beneficial for the company. Mergers and acquisitions can provide benefits such as increased market share, cost savings, access to new technologies and products, diversification, and improved financial performance. However, the process topples the naturally-maintained demand and supply constraints in the market. As the company stock is freed for trading after the acquisition process, the market pool is often erratic, and shares go through a vigorous exchange of hands. While not trying to exclude countless other possibilities, this erratic market adjustment might, very well, have been the reason for NABIL’s erratic decline in the last few trading sessions. Furthermore, during a conversation with a stock market veteran, the author noted that the share swap ratio was arguably lucrative for NBB shareholders. The veteran then argued that this may have caused quick profit-booking among a few cohorts of investors, which can’t be ruled unlikely. 2) Numbers to Numbers: NABIL vs. NICA Opinions on either side are fickle, but numbers don’t lie. Comparing financial figures is arguably the best way to compare two companies because it provides an objective and quantitative analysis of their financial performance and condition. By looking at different financial metrics, such as revenue, profits, assets, and cash flow, one gets a clear idea of how well each company is performing and how it might do in the future.  Dividend History  Dividend history is an important indicator of the financial strength of a company. A company's dividend history can provide insight into its profitability, cash flow, and overall financial stability. A company that has a consistent and increasing dividend history is generally considered to be financially stable and well-established. This is because dividends are typically paid out of a company's profits, and a company that is consistently profitable and generating cash flow is able to pay dividends to its shareholders.  A company that has a consistent dividend history also indicates that it is able to meet its financial obligations, such as debt repayment and reinvestment in the business. This is particularly important for companies in the financial sector, as investors often rely on dividends as a source of income.  As seen in the figure above, NABIL has been fairly consistent in disbursing its dividends. In the last five fiscal years, it has always distributed dividends higher than 30% to its shareholders. On the other hand, NICA has been inconsistent with its dividend payouts in the last five fiscal years. Furthermore, NICA did not declare any dividends for the two most recent fiscal years.  Deposit Growth Deposit figures are considered to be a significant metric in evaluating the fundamental and financial soundness, as well as the overall strength of a commercial bank. Deposits represent the funds that customers have placed with the bank and are a crucial source of funding for the bank's operations and lending activities. The yearly trend of deposit figures is also vital as it provides insight into the bank's ability to attract and retain customers. A bank that is able to consistently increase its deposits year after year is likely to be well-managed and have a strong customer base. Furthermore, a bank with a large deposit base is generally considered to be more financially stable than one with a smaller deposit base, as it has a larger pool of funds to draw from in case of loan defaults or other financial challenges.   Comparing the deposit figure and yearly trend, it is apparent that NICA has been leading from FY 2074/75 till FY 2077/78. However, Nabil Bank saw a significant boost recently, i.e. in FY 2078/79. Nabil Bank reported a gross deposit mobilization of Rs. 329.58 Arba, while NICA reported Rs. 294.98 Arba worth of deposits. This was a growth of 44.57% for Nabil Bank, while the deposit figure of NICA rather saw a decline compared to the amount reported in the previous fiscal year. It is important to note that the significant surge in NABIL’s deposit (and lending) figure is partly a result of its acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank (NBB). If the combined entity can continue to retain both the individual entity’s depositors, borrowers, and clients, NABIL can apparently maintain a dominant footing in these metrics for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, both commercial banks recently unveiled their Q2 report for this fiscal year (2079/80). As per the reports, Nabil Bank has reported Rs. 347.46 Arba worth of deposits in the said quarter. Meanwhile, Nic Asia Bank has reported the deposit from customers totaling Rs. 305.8 Arba. Loans Lending figures are important indicators of the financial growth of a commercial bank. The amount of loan a bank has outstanding is a good indicator of the bank's ability to generate revenue through interest and fees. A consistent and steady increase in lending over time indicates that the bank is able to make loans to customers and that there is a demand for the bank's lending services. The yearly trend of lending figures is also significant as it provides insight into the bank's loan portfolio and risk management. A bank that is able to consistently increase its lending year after year is likely to have a well-diversified loan portfolio and effective risk management practices in place. Furthermore, a bank with a large loan portfolio is generally considered to be more financially stable than one with a smaller loan portfolio, as it has a more diversified revenue stream.  The lending figures and yearly trends of the two banking giants are identical in nature to their deposit trends. NICA has consistently dominated lending from FY 2074/75 to FY 2077/78. However, NABIL witnessed a surge in lending in the recent FY 2078/79. While NICA reported a gross lending figure of Rs. 268.24 Arba in the said fiscal year, NABIL reported a whopping amount totaling Rs. 310.57 Arba. In comparison, NABIL’s loan portfolio was almost 16% higher than that of NICA in the previous fiscal year. In the said fiscal year, NABIL’s lending figure had grown by 50.31% compared to its own figure the year before. Meanwhile, NICA’s lending portfolio had grown by a meager 1.26%. Additionally, in the recently unveiled Q2 report of this fiscal year, Nabil Bank reported Rs. 315.6 Arba worth of loans and advances to its customers, and Rs. 9.58 Arba to BFIs. Meanwhile, Nic Asia Bank has forwarded Rs. 256.86 Arba worth of loans and advances to its customers, and Rs. 9.81 Arba to BFIs. Paid-Up Capital Paid-up capital is the amount of money that shareholders have invested in a company by purchasing shares. In the case of a commercial bank, paid-up capital is a measure of the bank's ability to withstand financial losses and continue operations. A bank with a large paid-up capital is considered to be more financially stable and better able to absorb potential losses. In essence, therefore, the paid-up capital is an important measure of a bank’s financial strength. Additionally, paid-up capital is also an important factor in determining the bank's credibility and reputation. A bank with a high paid-up capital is generally considered to be more financially stable and trustworthy and is more likely to attract and retain customers. For these reasons, the paid-up capital plays a significant role in determining the credibility and fundamental soundness of a commercial bank and is an important metric to assess the bank's financial health and stability.  NICA has a paid-up capital of Rs. 11.56 Arba. Meanwhile, NABIL maintains a paid-up capital figure of Rs. 27.056 Arba. Nabil Bank has shown consistent paid-up capital growth over time. Thus, NABIL now maintains a paid-up capital figure that equates to 134% of NICA’s paid-up capital. Although NABIL did have a higher paid-up capital before the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank (NBB), the acquisition has certainly proved beneficial in this metric as well. 3) NABIL’s Unique Industry Position Nabil Bank is a well-established and highly reputable commercial bank that has been a leader in the industry for many years. With a long history of providing competitive banking services, Nabil Bank has earned the trust and confidence of its customers and clients. Known for its strong financial performance and commitment to excellence, Nabil Bank is a bank that customers can rely on for all their banking needs. Whether it's a personal account or a business account, Nabil Bank's wide range of products and services is tailored to meet the unique needs of its customers. Its consistency in delivering high-quality services and its reputation for stability and security makes it a preferred choice for many customers. Credibility and Trustworthiness Being a market leader in the past can help a company in the future in several ways. One way is that it can establish a strong brand and reputation, which can make it easier for the company to attract new customers and retain existing ones. Additionally, a company that has been a market leader naturally has a larger customer base, which provides a steady source of revenue and makes it easier for the company to invest in new products and technologies. Furthermore, being a market leader in the past does give Nabil Bank a competitive advantage by making it easier to negotiate favorable terms with other businesses, attract top talent in its HR pool, and secure funding from investors. Spread Rate and Base Rate The spread rate is the difference between the interest rate a bank charges on loans and the interest rate it pays on deposits. Banks use a spread rate to measure their profitability and usually have a target spread rate that they aim to achieve. Meanwhile, the base rate, also known as the benchmark rate, is the minimum interest rate at which a bank can lend to its customers. When a bank has a comfortable margin before it reaches the industry-set limit on spread rate and base rate, it means that it has room to increase its profitability. The industry limit on the spread rate for commercial banks is currently 4.4%. Nabil Bank has maintained a spread rate of 4.03%. This means that the bank still has 0.37% of room to increase its spread rate and thus increase its profitability. Note: Commercial Banks should now maintain a spread rate within 4% by the end of this year, as per Nepal Rastra Bank’s first quarterly review of the monetary policy. Similarly, the industry limit on the base rate is currently 12% for commercial banks. Meanwhile, Nabil Bank's base rate is 9.45%. This is an advantage to attracting better customers and quality businesses. Apart from the obvious observation, this also indicates that Nabil Bank is well-positioned to take advantage of market conditions and capitalize on growth opportunities, which can be beneficial for the bank and its shareholders. CASA Ratio CASA ratio stands for the Current and Saving Account ratio. Although the CASA ratio is often overlooked, it is an important metric for measuring a bank's liquidity and efficiency. Nabil Bank has a better CASA ratio than the industry average, which is a positive indication of the bank's financial health and stability. Nabil Bank has a CASA ratio of 42.28%, compared to the industry average of 39.37%. A higher CASA ratio means that Nabil Bank has a larger proportion of low-cost deposits, such as current and savings accounts, in relation to its total deposits. This allows the bank to have more liquidity and to be able to meet its short-term obligations, such as loan disbursals and cash withdrawals, more easily. A higher CASA ratio also means that Nabil Bank has a strong customer base and good customer relationships. It indicates that the bank is able to attract and retain a large number of low-cost deposits, which is a sign of customer trust and confidence in the bank. Moreover, having a better CASA ratio than the industry average also helps Nabil Bank to reduce its overall cost of funds, as these deposits carry lower interest rates than other forms of deposits, as a result, it increases the net interest margin of the bank and thus helps to increase the profitability of the bank. Wrapping Up In conclusion, the recent decline in the stock price of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) can partly be attributed to the ""Dividend Effect,"" nonetheless not ignoring all other possible parameters. Additionally, the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited may have also contributed to the market adjustment and the subsequent decline in NABIL's stock price. However, the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank has already started to strengthen Nabil Bank’s footing in the banking sector, as depicted in this article. The long-term benefits of the acquisition, of course, will be seen with time. It is important to note that the company's fundamentals have not changed and potential investors can still analyze the company for long-term growth opportunities.  Disclaimer: Investment in securities comes with market risks. This article is not a stock recommendation. Needless to say, people can have inherent strategy bias, and so can the author. The secondary market stock of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has gone through a selling frenzy in the last few trading sessions. NABIL closed at Rs. 710.90 today. Meanwhile, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) shares were last priced at Rs. 835. If a company’s stock is priced higher than its competitors, it must be worth more than its competitors, right? The stock price of any company depends on countless factors other than the company’s real worth. Among all stock price constraints, Demand and Supply is one important factor. Some shareholders in NEPSE still take stock price information at face value. This article will examine NABIL, its financial strength, and its industry position. 1) But first, why did NABIL's stock price decline? Addressing the elephant in the room: Why did the share price of NABIL fall immediately? If one looks at the unadjusted stock price chart of NABIL, the stock shows a sharp gap down on January 02.   The stock closed the previous day at Rs. 854.50. The next day, it opened way below, at Rs. 735.50. While most experienced investors will realize why this happened, this effect may be startling for fresh investors. For lack of a better phrase, this phenomenon can be called the Dividend Effect. Explaining the Book Closure Effect/ Dividend Effect A company first declares a dividend for a certain fiscal year. It then announces a book closure date. Shareholders who own shares of the company before the book closure date are eligible for the dividend payout. NEPSE, the official stock exchange of Nepal, then adjusts the company’s stock price on the book closure date. The stock's value will then decrease approximately in line with the sum of dividends disbursed. However, this isn’t a bad thing for shareholders. If the company distributed a bonus dividend, shareholders now own more shares but with the same total monetary value, a result of the adjustment of stock price. Potential investors who haven’t bought the shares yet can do the same analysis on the company because the company’s basic fundamentals haven’t changed. Additionally, a company that distributes bonus shares does it to reinvest in its own business. A business that reinvests its profit to expand is considered a good company globally. Perhaps for this reason or another, shareholders instead believe that the stock price of a company will go up eventually in time after bonus shares adjustment. Dividend Effect in NABIL Nabil Bank recently convened its 38th AGM for the FY 2078-79 under the leadership of its chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudel. Apart from the regular financial reports, the AGM endorsed the board’s proposal to provide 18.5% bonus shares and 11.5% cash dividends to its shareholders from the profit it had made in the previous fiscal year. This is why the share price was adjusted on January 02, since the company had declared its book closure that day. Acquisition of NBB Bank Nabil Bank recently acquired Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited with a swap ratio of 100:43. Thus, 10,08,53,998 total shares of NBB were listed as additional NABIL shares after the joint operation. Merger and acquisition, in its essence, is beneficial for the company. Mergers and acquisitions can provide benefits such as increased market share, cost savings, access to new technologies and products, diversification, and improved financial performance. However, the process topples the naturally-maintained demand and supply constraints in the market. As the company stock is freed for trading after the acquisition process, the market pool is often erratic, and shares go through a vigorous exchange of hands. While not trying to exclude countless other possibilities, this erratic market adjustment might, very well, have been the reason for NABIL’s erratic decline in the last few trading sessions. Furthermore, during a conversation with a stock market veteran, the author noted that the share swap ratio was arguably lucrative for NBB shareholders. The veteran then argued that this may have caused quick profit-booking among a few cohorts of investors, which can’t be ruled unlikely. 2) Numbers to Numbers: NABIL vs. NICA Opinions on either side are fickle, but numbers don’t lie. Comparing financial figures is arguably the best way to compare two companies because it provides an objective and quantitative analysis of their financial performance and condition. By looking at different financial metrics, such as revenue, profits, assets, and cash flow, one gets a clear idea of how well each company is performing and how it might do in the future.  Dividend History  Dividend history is an important indicator of the financial strength of a company. A company's dividend history can provide insight into its profitability, cash flow, and overall financial stability. A company that has a consistent and increasing dividend history is generally considered to be financially stable and well-established. This is because dividends are typically paid out of a company's profits, and a company that is consistently profitable and generating cash flow is able to pay dividends to its shareholders.  A company that has a consistent dividend history also indicates that it is able to meet its financial obligations, such as debt repayment and reinvestment in the business. This is particularly important for companies in the financial sector, as investors often rely on dividends as a source of income.  As seen in the figure above, NABIL has been fairly consistent in disbursing its dividends. In the last five fiscal years, it has always distributed dividends higher than 30% to its shareholders. On the other hand, NICA has been inconsistent with its dividend payouts in the last five fiscal years. Furthermore, NICA did not declare any dividends for the two most recent fiscal years.  Deposit Growth Deposit figures are considered to be a significant metric in evaluating the fundamental and financial soundness, as well as the overall strength of a commercial bank. Deposits represent the funds that customers have placed with the bank and are a crucial source of funding for the bank's operations and lending activities. The yearly trend of deposit figures is also vital as it provides insight into the bank's ability to attract and retain customers. A bank that is able to consistently increase its deposits year after year is likely to be well-managed and have a strong customer base. Furthermore, a bank with a large deposit base is generally considered to be more financially stable than one with a smaller deposit base, as it has a larger pool of funds to draw from in case of loan defaults or other financial challenges.   Comparing the deposit figure and yearly trend, it is apparent that NICA has been leading from FY 2074/75 till FY 2077/78. However, Nabil Bank saw a significant boost recently, i.e. in FY 2078/79. Nabil Bank reported a gross deposit mobilization of Rs. 329.58 Arba, while NICA reported Rs. 294.98 Arba worth of deposits. This was a growth of 44.57% for Nabil Bank, while the deposit figure of NICA rather saw a decline compared to the amount reported in the previous fiscal year. It is important to note that the significant surge in NABIL’s deposit (and lending) figure is partly a result of its acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank (NBB). If the combined entity can continue to retain both the individual entity’s depositors, borrowers, and clients, NABIL can apparently maintain a dominant footing in these metrics for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, both commercial banks recently unveiled their Q2 report for this fiscal year (2079/80). As per the reports, Nabil Bank has reported Rs. 347.46 Arba worth of deposits in the said quarter. Meanwhile, Nic Asia Bank has reported the deposit from customers totaling Rs. 305.8 Arba. Loans Lending figures are important indicators of the financial growth of a commercial bank. The amount of loan a bank has outstanding is a good indicator of the bank's ability to generate revenue through interest and fees. A consistent and steady increase in lending over time indicates that the bank is able to make loans to customers and that there is a demand for the bank's lending services. The yearly trend of lending figures is also significant as it provides insight into the bank's loan portfolio and risk management. A bank that is able to consistently increase its lending year after year is likely to have a well-diversified loan portfolio and effective risk management practices in place. Furthermore, a bank with a large loan portfolio is generally considered to be more financially stable than one with a smaller loan portfolio, as it has a more diversified revenue stream.  The lending figures and yearly trends of the two banking giants are identical in nature to their deposit trends. NICA has consistently dominated lending from FY 2074/75 to FY 2077/78. However, NABIL witnessed a surge in lending in the recent FY 2078/79. While NICA reported a gross lending figure of Rs. 268.24 Arba in the said fiscal year, NABIL reported a whopping amount totaling Rs. 310.57 Arba. In comparison, NABIL’s loan portfolio was almost 16% higher than that of NICA in the previous fiscal year. In the said fiscal year, NABIL’s lending figure had grown by 50.31% compared to its own figure the year before. Meanwhile, NICA’s lending portfolio had grown by a meager 1.26%. Additionally, in the recently unveiled Q2 report of this fiscal year, Nabil Bank reported Rs. 315.6 Arba worth of loans and advances to its customers, and Rs. 9.58 Arba to BFIs. Meanwhile, Nic Asia Bank has forwarded Rs. 256.86 Arba worth of loans and advances to its customers, and Rs. 9.81 Arba to BFIs. Paid-Up Capital Paid-up capital is the amount of money that shareholders have invested in a company by purchasing shares. In the case of a commercial bank, paid-up capital is a measure of the bank's ability to withstand financial losses and continue operations. A bank with a large paid-up capital is considered to be more financially stable and better able to absorb potential losses. In essence, therefore, the paid-up capital is an important measure of a bank’s financial strength. Additionally, paid-up capital is also an important factor in determining the bank's credibility and reputation. A bank with a high paid-up capital is generally considered to be more financially stable and trustworthy and is more likely to attract and retain customers. For these reasons, the paid-up capital plays a significant role in determining the credibility and fundamental soundness of a commercial bank and is an important metric to assess the bank's financial health and stability.  NICA has a paid-up capital of Rs. 11.56 Arba. Meanwhile, NABIL maintains a paid-up capital figure of Rs. 27.056 Arba. Nabil Bank has shown consistent paid-up capital growth over time. Thus, NABIL now maintains a paid-up capital figure that equates to 134% of NICA’s paid-up capital. Although NABIL did have a higher paid-up capital before the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank (NBB), the acquisition has certainly proved beneficial in this metric as well. 3) NABIL’s Unique Industry Position Nabil Bank is a well-established and highly reputable commercial bank that has been a leader in the industry for many years. With a long history of providing competitive banking services, Nabil Bank has earned the trust and confidence of its customers and clients. Known for its strong financial performance and commitment to excellence, Nabil Bank is a bank that customers can rely on for all their banking needs. Whether it's a personal account or a business account, Nabil Bank's wide range of products and services is tailored to meet the unique needs of its customers. Its consistency in delivering high-quality services and its reputation for stability and security makes it a preferred choice for many customers. Credibility and Trustworthiness Being a market leader in the past can help a company in the future in several ways. One way is that it can establish a strong brand and reputation, which can make it easier for the company to attract new customers and retain existing ones. Additionally, a company that has been a market leader naturally has a larger customer base, which provides a steady source of revenue and makes it easier for the company to invest in new products and technologies. Furthermore, being a market leader in the past does give Nabil Bank a competitive advantage by making it easier to negotiate favorable terms with other businesses, attract top talent in its HR pool, and secure funding from investors. Spread Rate and Base Rate The spread rate is the difference between the interest rate a bank charges on loans and the interest rate it pays on deposits. Banks use a spread rate to measure their profitability and usually have a target spread rate that they aim to achieve. Meanwhile, the base rate, also known as the benchmark rate, is the minimum interest rate at which a bank can lend to its customers. When a bank has a comfortable margin before it reaches the industry-set limit on spread rate and base rate, it means that it has room to increase its profitability. The industry limit on the spread rate for commercial banks is currently 4.4%. Nabil Bank has maintained a spread rate of 4.03%. This means that the bank still has 0.37% of room to increase its spread rate and thus increase its profitability. Note: Commercial Banks should now maintain a spread rate within 4% by the end of this year, as per Nepal Rastra Bank’s first quarterly review of the monetary policy. Similarly, the industry limit on the base rate is currently 12% for commercial banks. Meanwhile, Nabil Bank's base rate is 9.45%. This is an advantage to attracting better customers and quality businesses. Apart from the obvious observation, this also indicates that Nabil Bank is well-positioned to take advantage of market conditions and capitalize on growth opportunities, which can be beneficial for the bank and its shareholders. CASA Ratio CASA ratio stands for the Current and Saving Account ratio. Although the CASA ratio is often overlooked, it is an important metric for measuring a bank's liquidity and efficiency. Nabil Bank has a better CASA ratio than the industry average, which is a positive indication of the bank's financial health and stability. Nabil Bank has a CASA ratio of 42.28%, compared to the industry average of 39.37%. A higher CASA ratio means that Nabil Bank has a larger proportion of low-cost deposits, such as current and savings accounts, in relation to its total deposits. This allows the bank to have more liquidity and to be able to meet its short-term obligations, such as loan disbursals and cash withdrawals, more easily. A higher CASA ratio also means that Nabil Bank has a strong customer base and good customer relationships. It indicates that the bank is able to attract and retain a large number of low-cost deposits, which is a sign of customer trust and confidence in the bank. Moreover, having a better CASA ratio than the industry average also helps Nabil Bank to reduce its overall cost of funds, as these deposits carry lower interest rates than other forms of deposits, as a result, it increases the net interest margin of the bank and thus helps to increase the profitability of the bank. Wrapping Up In conclusion, the recent decline in the stock price of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) can partly be attributed to the ""Dividend Effect,"" nonetheless not ignoring all other possible parameters. Additionally, the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited may have also contributed to the market adjustment and the subsequent decline in NABIL's stock price. However, the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank has already started to strengthen Nabil Bank’s footing in the banking sector, as depicted in this article. The long-term benefits of the acquisition, of course, will be seen with time. It is important to note that the company's fundamentals have not changed and potential investors can still analyze the company for long-term growth opportunities.  Disclaimer: Investment in securities comes with market risks. This article is not a stock recommendation. Needless to say, people can have inherent strategy bias, and so can the author. The secondary market stock of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has gone through a selling frenzy in the last few trading sessions. NABIL closed at Rs. 710.90 today. Meanwhile, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) shares were last priced at Rs. 835. If a company’s stock is priced higher than its competitors, it must be worth more than its competitors, right? The stock price of any company depends on countless factors other than the company’s real worth. Among all stock price constraints, Demand and Supply is one important factor. Some shareholders in NEPSE still take stock price information at face value. This article will examine NABIL, its financial strength, and its industry position. 1) But first, why did NABIL's stock price decline? Addressing the elephant in the room: Why did the share price of NABIL fall immediately? If one looks at the unadjusted stock price chart of NABIL, the stock shows a sharp gap down on January 02.   The stock closed the previous day at Rs. 854.50. The next day, it opened way below, at Rs. 735.50. While most experienced investors will realize why this happened, this effect may be startling for fresh investors. For lack of a better phrase, this phenomenon can be called the Dividend Effect. Explaining the Book Closure Effect/ Dividend Effect A company first declares a dividend for a certain fiscal year. It then announces a book closure date. Shareholders who own shares of the company before the book closure date are eligible for the dividend payout. NEPSE, the official stock exchange of Nepal, then adjusts the company’s stock price on the book closure date. The stock's value will then decrease approximately in line with the sum of dividends disbursed. However, this isn’t a bad thing for shareholders. If the company distributed a bonus dividend, shareholders now own more shares but with the same total monetary value, a result of the adjustment of stock price. Potential investors who haven’t bought the shares yet can do the same analysis on the company because the company’s basic fundamentals haven’t changed. Additionally, a company that distributes bonus shares does it to reinvest in its own business. A business that reinvests its profit to expand is considered a good company globally. Perhaps for this reason or another, shareholders instead believe that the stock price of a company will go up eventually in time after bonus shares adjustment. Dividend Effect in NABIL Nabil Bank recently convened its 38th AGM for the FY 2078-79 under the leadership of its chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudel. Apart from the regular financial reports, the AGM endorsed the board’s proposal to provide 18.5% bonus shares and 11.5% cash dividends to its shareholders from the profit it had made in the previous fiscal year. This is why the share price was adjusted on January 02, since the company had declared its book closure that day. Acquisition of NBB Bank Nabil Bank recently acquired Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited with a swap ratio of 100:43. Thus, 10,08,53,998 total shares of NBB were listed as additional NABIL shares after the joint operation. Merger and acquisition, in its essence, is beneficial for the company. Mergers and acquisitions can provide benefits such as increased market share, cost savings, access to new technologies and products, diversification, and improved financial performance. However, the process topples the naturally-maintained demand and supply constraints in the market. As the company stock is freed for trading after the acquisition process, the market pool is often erratic, and shares go through a vigorous exchange of hands. While not trying to exclude countless other possibilities, this erratic market adjustment might, very well, have been the reason for NABIL’s erratic decline in the last few trading sessions. Furthermore, during a conversation with a stock market veteran, the author noted that the share swap ratio was arguably lucrative for NBB shareholders. The veteran then argued that this may have caused quick profit-booking among a few cohorts of investors, which can’t be ruled unlikely. 2) Numbers to Numbers: NABIL vs. NICA Opinions on either side are fickle, but numbers don’t lie. Comparing financial figures is arguably the best way to compare two companies because it provides an objective and quantitative analysis of their financial performance and condition. By looking at different financial metrics, such as revenue, profits, assets, and cash flow, one gets a clear idea of how well each company is performing and how it might do in the future.  Dividend History  Dividend history is an important indicator of the financial strength of a company. A company's dividend history can provide insight into its profitability, cash flow, and overall financial stability. A company that has a consistent and increasing dividend history is generally considered to be financially stable and well-established. This is because dividends are typically paid out of a company's profits, and a company that is consistently profitable and generating cash flow is able to pay dividends to its shareholders.  A company that has a consistent dividend history also indicates that it is able to meet its financial obligations, such as debt repayment and reinvestment in the business. This is particularly important for companies in the financial sector, as investors often rely on dividends as a source of income.  As seen in the figure above, NABIL has been fairly consistent in disbursing its dividends. In the last five fiscal years, it has always distributed dividends higher than 30% to its shareholders. On the other hand, NICA has been inconsistent with its dividend payouts in the last five fiscal years. Furthermore, NICA did not declare any dividends for the two most recent fiscal years.  Deposit Growth Deposit figures are considered to be a significant metric in evaluating the fundamental and financial soundness, as well as the overall strength of a commercial bank. Deposits represent the funds that customers have placed with the bank and are a crucial source of funding for the bank's operations and lending activities. The yearly trend of deposit figures is also vital as it provides insight into the bank's ability to attract and retain customers. A bank that is able to consistently increase its deposits year after year is likely to be well-managed and have a strong customer base. Furthermore, a bank with a large deposit base is generally considered to be more financially stable than one with a smaller deposit base, as it has a larger pool of funds to draw from in case of loan defaults or other financial challenges.   Comparing the deposit figure and yearly trend, it is apparent that NICA has been leading from FY 2074/75 till FY 2077/78. However, Nabil Bank saw a significant boost recently, i.e. in FY 2078/79. Nabil Bank reported a gross deposit mobilization of Rs. 329.58 Arba, while NICA reported Rs. 294.98 Arba worth of deposits. This was a growth of 44.57% for Nabil Bank, while the deposit figure of NICA rather saw a decline compared to the amount reported in the previous fiscal year. It is important to note that the significant surge in NABIL’s deposit (and lending) figure is partly a result of its acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank (NBB). If the combined entity can continue to retain both the individual entity’s depositors, borrowers, and clients, NABIL can apparently maintain a dominant footing in these metrics for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, both commercial banks recently unveiled their Q2 report for this fiscal year (2079/80). As per the reports, Nabil Bank has reported Rs. 347.46 Arba worth of deposits in the said quarter. Meanwhile, Nic Asia Bank has reported the deposit from customers totaling Rs. 305.8 Arba. Loans Lending figures are important indicators of the financial growth of a commercial bank. The amount of loan a bank has outstanding is a good indicator of the bank's ability to generate revenue through interest and fees. A consistent and steady increase in lending over time indicates that the bank is able to make loans to customers and that there is a demand for the bank's lending services. The yearly trend of lending figures is also significant as it provides insight into the bank's loan portfolio and risk management. A bank that is able to consistently increase its lending year after year is likely to have a well-diversified loan portfolio and effective risk management practices in place. Furthermore, a bank with a large loan portfolio is generally considered to be more financially stable than one with a smaller loan portfolio, as it has a more diversified revenue stream.  The lending figures and yearly trends of the two banking giants are identical in nature to their deposit trends. NICA has consistently dominated lending from FY 2074/75 to FY 2077/78. However, NABIL witnessed a surge in lending in the recent FY 2078/79. While NICA reported a gross lending figure of Rs. 268.24 Arba in the said fiscal year, NABIL reported a whopping amount totaling Rs. 310.57 Arba. In comparison, NABIL’s loan portfolio was almost 16% higher than that of NICA in the previous fiscal year. In the said fiscal year, NABIL’s lending figure had grown by 50.31% compared to its own figure the year before. Meanwhile, NICA’s lending portfolio had grown by a meager 1.26%. Additionally, in the recently unveiled Q2 report of this fiscal year, Nabil Bank reported Rs. 315.6 Arba worth of loans and advances to its customers, and Rs. 9.58 Arba to BFIs. Meanwhile, Nic Asia Bank has forwarded Rs. 256.86 Arba worth of loans and advances to its customers, and Rs. 9.81 Arba to BFIs. Paid-Up Capital Paid-up capital is the amount of money that shareholders have invested in a company by purchasing shares. In the case of a commercial bank, paid-up capital is a measure of the bank's ability to withstand financial losses and continue operations. A bank with a large paid-up capital is considered to be more financially stable and better able to absorb potential losses. In essence, therefore, the paid-up capital is an important measure of a bank’s financial strength. Additionally, paid-up capital is also an important factor in determining the bank's credibility and reputation. A bank with a high paid-up capital is generally considered to be more financially stable and trustworthy and is more likely to attract and retain customers. For these reasons, the paid-up capital plays a significant role in determining the credibility and fundamental soundness of a commercial bank and is an important metric to assess the bank's financial health and stability.  NICA has a paid-up capital of Rs. 11.56 Arba. Meanwhile, NABIL maintains a paid-up capital figure of Rs. 27.056 Arba. Nabil Bank has shown consistent paid-up capital growth over time. Thus, NABIL now maintains a paid-up capital figure that equates to 134% of NICA’s paid-up capital. Although NABIL did have a higher paid-up capital before the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank (NBB), the acquisition has certainly proved beneficial in this metric as well. 3) NABIL’s Unique Industry Position Nabil Bank is a well-established and highly reputable commercial bank that has been a leader in the industry for many years. With a long history of providing competitive banking services, Nabil Bank has earned the trust and confidence of its customers and clients. Known for its strong financial performance and commitment to excellence, Nabil Bank is a bank that customers can rely on for all their banking needs. Whether it's a personal account or a business account, Nabil Bank's wide range of products and services is tailored to meet the unique needs of its customers. Its consistency in delivering high-quality services and its reputation for stability and security makes it a preferred choice for many customers. Credibility and Trustworthiness Being a market leader in the past can help a company in the future in several ways. One way is that it can establish a strong brand and reputation, which can make it easier for the company to attract new customers and retain existing ones. Additionally, a company that has been a market leader naturally has a larger customer base, which provides a steady source of revenue and makes it easier for the company to invest in new products and technologies. Furthermore, being a market leader in the past does give Nabil Bank a competitive advantage by making it easier to negotiate favorable terms with other businesses, attract top talent in its HR pool, and secure funding from investors. Spread Rate and Base Rate The spread rate is the difference between the interest rate a bank charges on loans and the interest rate it pays on deposits. Banks use a spread rate to measure their profitability and usually have a target spread rate that they aim to achieve. Meanwhile, the base rate, also known as the benchmark rate, is the minimum interest rate at which a bank can lend to its customers. When a bank has a comfortable margin before it reaches the industry-set limit on spread rate and base rate, it means that it has room to increase its profitability. The industry limit on the spread rate for commercial banks is currently 4.4%. Nabil Bank has maintained a spread rate of 4.03%. This means that the bank still has 0.37% of room to increase its spread rate and thus increase its profitability. Note: Commercial Banks should now maintain a spread rate within 4% by the end of this year, as per Nepal Rastra Bank’s first quarterly review of the monetary policy. Similarly, the industry limit on the base rate is currently 12% for commercial banks. Meanwhile, Nabil Bank's base rate is 9.45%. This is an advantage to attracting better customers and quality businesses. Apart from the obvious observation, this also indicates that Nabil Bank is well-positioned to take advantage of market conditions and capitalize on growth opportunities, which can be beneficial for the bank and its shareholders. CASA Ratio CASA ratio stands for the Current and Saving Account ratio. Although the CASA ratio is often overlooked, it is an important metric for measuring a bank's liquidity and efficiency. Nabil Bank has a better CASA ratio than the industry average, which is a positive indication of the bank's financial health and stability. Nabil Bank has a CASA ratio of 42.28%, compared to the industry average of 39.37%. A higher CASA ratio means that Nabil Bank has a larger proportion of low-cost deposits, such as current and savings accounts, in relation to its total deposits. This allows the bank to have more liquidity and to be able to meet its short-term obligations, such as loan disbursals and cash withdrawals, more easily. A higher CASA ratio also means that Nabil Bank has a strong customer base and good customer relationships. It indicates that the bank is able to attract and retain a large number of low-cost deposits, which is a sign of customer trust and confidence in the bank. Moreover, having a better CASA ratio than the industry average also helps Nabil Bank to reduce its overall cost of funds, as these deposits carry lower interest rates than other forms of deposits, as a result, it increases the net interest margin of the bank and thus helps to increase the profitability of the bank. Wrapping Up In conclusion, the recent decline in the stock price of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) can partly be attributed to the ""Dividend Effect,"" nonetheless not ignoring all other possible parameters. Additionally, the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited may have also contributed to the market adjustment and the subsequent decline in NABIL's stock price. However, the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank has already started to strengthen Nabil Bank’s footing in the banking sector, as depicted in this article. The long-term benefits of the acquisition, of course, will be seen with time. It is important to note that the company's fundamentals have not changed and potential investors can still analyze the company for long-term growth opportunities.  Disclaimer: Investment in securities comes with market risks. This article is not a stock recommendation. Needless to say, people can have inherent strategy bias, and so can the author. "
2023-01-19,Nabil Bank To Auction Promoter Shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta From Magh 10,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-auction-promoter-shares-of-swabalamban-laghubitta-from-magh-10-2023-01-19,"Nabil Bank Limited is auctioning the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SWBBL) from 10th Magh till 24th Magh, 2079. 1,59,000 unit promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta are being auctioned. Rs. 555 is the minimum bid rate for the auction. While the minimum bid quantity for shares is 1000 units, there is no upper limit for both shares. Although bidders can bid for the entirety of the issue, they are required to abide by Nepal Rastra Bank's rule to not exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Nabil Invest has been appointed as the auction manager. Bids will be opened at the premises of the auction manager on Magh 25, starting at 10 am that day.   Auction Notice Nabil Bank Limited is auctioning the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SWBBL) from 10th Magh till 24th Magh, 2079. 1,59,000 unit promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta are being auctioned. Rs. 555 is the minimum bid rate for the auction. While the minimum bid quantity for shares is 1000 units, there is no upper limit for both shares. Although bidders can bid for the entirety of the issue, they are required to abide by Nepal Rastra Bank's rule to not exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Nabil Invest has been appointed as the auction manager. Bids will be opened at the premises of the auction manager on Magh 25, starting at 10 am that day.   Auction Notice Nabil Bank Limited is auctioning the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SWBBL) from 10th Magh till 24th Magh, 2079. 1,59,000 unit promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta are being auctioned. Rs. 555 is the minimum bid rate for the auction. While the minimum bid quantity for shares is 1000 units, there is no upper limit for both shares. Although bidders can bid for the entirety of the issue, they are required to abide by Nepal Rastra Bank's rule to not exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Nabil Invest has been appointed as the auction manager. Bids will be opened at the premises of the auction manager on Magh 25, starting at 10 am that day.   Auction Notice "
2023-01-16,Nabil Bank convenes its 38th AGM; endorses proposal of 30% dividend,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-convenes-its-38th-agm-endorses-proposal-of-30-dividend-2023-01-16,"Nabil Bank convened its 38th AGM for the FY 2078-79 under the leadership of its chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudel on Poush 29, 2079. Apart from the regular financial reports, The AGM has endorsed the board’s proposal to provide 18.5% bonus shares and 11.5% cash dividends to its shareholders from the profit it had made in the previous fiscal year. After the bonus shares, the paid-up value of the bank will scale up to more than Rs 27 arba. The AGM also elected Mr. Nirwan Chaudhari, Mr. Malaya Mukharji and Mr. ARM Najmus Sakib as directors from the promoter shareholder group, as per the media statement. The bank had earned net profit of Rs 4.25 arba during the review period, as per the media statement. The bank currently provides its services to its customers from its 240 branches, 275 ATM outlets, and 8 remit agents under its network. Nabil Bank convened its 38th AGM for the FY 2078-79 under the leadership of its chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudel on Poush 29, 2079. Apart from the regular financial reports, The AGM has endorsed the board’s proposal to provide 18.5% bonus shares and 11.5% cash dividends to its shareholders from the profit it had made in the previous fiscal year. After the bonus shares, the paid-up value of the bank will scale up to more than Rs 27 arba. The AGM also elected Mr. Nirwan Chaudhari, Mr. Malaya Mukharji and Mr. ARM Najmus Sakib as directors from the promoter shareholder group, as per the media statement. The bank had earned net profit of Rs 4.25 arba during the review period, as per the media statement. The bank currently provides its services to its customers from its 240 branches, 275 ATM outlets, and 8 remit agents under its network. Nabil Bank convened its 38th AGM for the FY 2078-79 under the leadership of its chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudel on Poush 29, 2079. Apart from the regular financial reports, The AGM has endorsed the board’s proposal to provide 18.5% bonus shares and 11.5% cash dividends to its shareholders from the profit it had made in the previous fiscal year. After the bonus shares, the paid-up value of the bank will scale up to more than Rs 27 arba. The AGM also elected Mr. Nirwan Chaudhari, Mr. Malaya Mukharji and Mr. ARM Najmus Sakib as directors from the promoter shareholder group, as per the media statement. The bank had earned net profit of Rs 4.25 arba during the review period, as per the media statement. The bank currently provides its services to its customers from its 240 branches, 275 ATM outlets, and 8 remit agents under its network. "
2023-01-12,Committee of Nepal Bankers Association has Decided to Decrease Fixed Deposits Interest Rates For the Month of Magh,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/committee-of-nepal-bankers-association-has-decided-to-decrease-fixed-deposits-interest-rates-for-the-month-of-magh-2023-01-12,"The interest rate on fixed deposits would be lower starting in the upcoming month of Magh, according to the Nepal Bankers Association. In the Bankers' Association meeting held on Wednesday, the majority of banks expressed their support for lowering the interest rate, and a decision was made to also lower the term interest rate. Bank fixed deposit interest rates are currently 12.133 percent for individuals and 10.133 percent for institutions. The Bankers Association has consented to lower the interest rate from Magh to 11% for individuals and 9% interest rates for the institutions.  By lowering the interest rate on deposits, banks will be able to operate on lower cost and lower their base rate. As a result, starting with the following quarter, the loan interest rate will also reduce. Banks in Ashoj maintained interest rates on term deposits at 12.133 percent for individuals, 10.133 percent for institutions, and 13.133 percent for remittances. Some banks have offered remittance interest rates as high as 15%. The same interest rates have been fixed until the month of poush, and after four months the interest rates have finally changed. The interest rate on fixed deposits would be lower starting in the upcoming month of Magh, according to the Nepal Bankers Association. In the Bankers' Association meeting held on Wednesday, the majority of banks expressed their support for lowering the interest rate, and a decision was made to also lower the term interest rate. Bank fixed deposit interest rates are currently 12.133 percent for individuals and 10.133 percent for institutions. The Bankers Association has consented to lower the interest rate from Magh to 11% for individuals and 9% interest rates for the institutions.  By lowering the interest rate on deposits, banks will be able to operate on lower cost and lower their base rate. As a result, starting with the following quarter, the loan interest rate will also reduce. Banks in Ashoj maintained interest rates on term deposits at 12.133 percent for individuals, 10.133 percent for institutions, and 13.133 percent for remittances. Some banks have offered remittance interest rates as high as 15%. The same interest rates have been fixed until the month of poush, and after four months the interest rates have finally changed. The interest rate on fixed deposits would be lower starting in the upcoming month of Magh, according to the Nepal Bankers Association. In the Bankers' Association meeting held on Wednesday, the majority of banks expressed their support for lowering the interest rate, and a decision was made to also lower the term interest rate. Bank fixed deposit interest rates are currently 12.133 percent for individuals and 10.133 percent for institutions. The Bankers Association has consented to lower the interest rate from Magh to 11% for individuals and 9% interest rates for the institutions.  By lowering the interest rate on deposits, banks will be able to operate on lower cost and lower their base rate. As a result, starting with the following quarter, the loan interest rate will also reduce. Banks in Ashoj maintained interest rates on term deposits at 12.133 percent for individuals, 10.133 percent for institutions, and 13.133 percent for remittances. Some banks have offered remittance interest rates as high as 15%. The same interest rates have been fixed until the month of poush, and after four months the interest rates have finally changed. "
2023-01-10,Stock Market Trend Analysis; Which Sector Has Gained the Highest in Last  100 Days?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/stock-market-trend-analysis-which-sector-has-gained-the-highest-in-last-100-days-2023-01-10,"Since last week, NEPSE appears to be gaining ground owing to daily increases in turnover and points scored. NEPSE closed above 2200 yesterday, January 9, 2023, for the first time in nearly seven months. With this, NEPSE has closed at the 2,211.38 level. The index concluded at its highest point in seven months. Last time on May 27, 2022, the NEPSE was at 2,223.78 levels.  On August 18, 2021, the NEPSE reached a new record high, closing at 3,198.60, with a turnover of Rs 21.31 Arba. After this level, the NEPSE index has been on a decreasing trend but, with the index now rebounding, investors have begun to return to the stock market. In this article, we will see the incline/decline in the index value of each sector over the past 3.5 Months (25th September, 22 to 9th January, 23)  Sector-wise index gain   As can be seen from the data, the Trading Index has gained the highest over the past three months. The index level stood at 1756.89 on 25th September, which has increased by 40.81% to stand at 2473.90 levels on 9th January 2023. Similarly, 10 sectors have an index percentage incline higher than the NEPSE Index, which signifies strong price fluctuation and also that trade, hydropower, finance, life insurance, and investment may be favorable for trading. On the other hand, Low beta indices, like banking, manufacturing and processing as well as mutual funds have reduced risk and are hence better for long-term investing. As can be seen, the banking sector and mutual fund sector have gained the lowest in recent times with an incline of 11.06% and 9.12% respectively. TOP 10 GAINER FROM EACH OF 13 SECTORS:  Banking Sector  Development Banks  Finance   Hotels And Tourism  Hydro Power  Life Insurance  Manufacturing And Processing  Microfinance   Others   Non-Life Insurance  Trading  Mutual Funds   Investment  Note: Any dividend distributed during the period of 3.5 Months (25 September, 2022 to 9 January, 2023) has not been adjusted and taken into consideration for this analysis. Since last week, NEPSE appears to be gaining ground owing to daily increases in turnover and points scored. NEPSE closed above 2200 yesterday, January 9, 2023, for the first time in nearly seven months. With this, NEPSE has closed at the 2,211.38 level. The index concluded at its highest point in seven months. Last time on May 27, 2022, the NEPSE was at 2,223.78 levels.  On August 18, 2021, the NEPSE reached a new record high, closing at 3,198.60, with a turnover of Rs 21.31 Arba. After this level, the NEPSE index has been on a decreasing trend but, with the index now rebounding, investors have begun to return to the stock market. In this article, we will see the incline/decline in the index value of each sector over the past 3.5 Months (25th September, 22 to 9th January, 23)  Sector-wise index gain   As can be seen from the data, the Trading Index has gained the highest over the past three months. The index level stood at 1756.89 on 25th September, which has increased by 40.81% to stand at 2473.90 levels on 9th January 2023. Similarly, 10 sectors have an index percentage incline higher than the NEPSE Index, which signifies strong price fluctuation and also that trade, hydropower, finance, life insurance, and investment may be favorable for trading. On the other hand, Low beta indices, like banking, manufacturing and processing as well as mutual funds have reduced risk and are hence better for long-term investing. As can be seen, the banking sector and mutual fund sector have gained the lowest in recent times with an incline of 11.06% and 9.12% respectively. TOP 10 GAINER FROM EACH OF 13 SECTORS:  Banking Sector  Development Banks  Finance   Hotels And Tourism  Hydro Power  Life Insurance  Manufacturing And Processing  Microfinance   Others   Non-Life Insurance  Trading  Mutual Funds   Investment  Note: Any dividend distributed during the period of 3.5 Months (25 September, 2022 to 9 January, 2023) has not been adjusted and taken into consideration for this analysis. Since last week, NEPSE appears to be gaining ground owing to daily increases in turnover and points scored. NEPSE closed above 2200 yesterday, January 9, 2023, for the first time in nearly seven months. With this, NEPSE has closed at the 2,211.38 level. The index concluded at its highest point in seven months. Last time on May 27, 2022, the NEPSE was at 2,223.78 levels.  On August 18, 2021, the NEPSE reached a new record high, closing at 3,198.60, with a turnover of Rs 21.31 Arba. After this level, the NEPSE index has been on a decreasing trend but, with the index now rebounding, investors have begun to return to the stock market. In this article, we will see the incline/decline in the index value of each sector over the past 3.5 Months (25th September, 22 to 9th January, 23)  Sector-wise index gain   As can be seen from the data, the Trading Index has gained the highest over the past three months. The index level stood at 1756.89 on 25th September, which has increased by 40.81% to stand at 2473.90 levels on 9th January 2023. Similarly, 10 sectors have an index percentage incline higher than the NEPSE Index, which signifies strong price fluctuation and also that trade, hydropower, finance, life insurance, and investment may be favorable for trading. On the other hand, Low beta indices, like banking, manufacturing and processing as well as mutual funds have reduced risk and are hence better for long-term investing. As can be seen, the banking sector and mutual fund sector have gained the lowest in recent times with an incline of 11.06% and 9.12% respectively. TOP 10 GAINER FROM EACH OF 13 SECTORS:  Banking Sector  Development Banks  Finance   Hotels And Tourism  Hydro Power  Life Insurance  Manufacturing And Processing  Microfinance   Others   Non-Life Insurance  Trading  Mutual Funds   Investment  Note: Any dividend distributed during the period of 3.5 Months (25 September, 2022 to 9 January, 2023) has not been adjusted and taken into consideration for this analysis. "
2023-01-08,Nabil Bank graduates first batch of Nabil SSE fellows; 18 trained and motivated entrepreneurs enter the workforce with 20 fellows joining in as 2nd Nabil SSE batch,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-graduates-first-batch-of-nabil-sse-fellows-18-trained-and-motivated-entrepreneurs-enter-the-workforce-with-20-fellows-joining-in-as-2nd-nabil-sse-batch-2023-01-08,"Nabil Bank has concluded the first edition of its Nabil SSE Fellowship program where its 18 Nabil SSE fellows got graduated. Amid an event at Tribhuvan University Kritipur, the bank has seen off its 18 outgoing Nabil SSE fellows while welcoming the second batch of its 20 Nabil SSE fellows, as per the media statement. The event was also attended by Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Manoj Gyawali, Dean of TUSOM Prof. Dr. Dilli Raj Sharma, VC of the university Prof. Dr. DharmaKant Baskota. The bank has also signed a MoU with the university to conduct the second batch of Nabil SSE program which was signed between CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Dhungana, Deputy Chair of the bank Mr. Nirvan Chaudhari, VC of TU Prof. Dr. Dharmakant Baskota and TUSOM Dean Prof. Dr. Dilli Raj Sharma amid the same event. Nabil Bank has concluded the first edition of its Nabil SSE Fellowship program where its 18 Nabil SSE fellows got graduated. Amid an event at Tribhuvan University Kritipur, the bank has seen off its 18 outgoing Nabil SSE fellows while welcoming the second batch of its 20 Nabil SSE fellows, as per the media statement. The event was also attended by Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Manoj Gyawali, Dean of TUSOM Prof. Dr. Dilli Raj Sharma, VC of the university Prof. Dr. DharmaKant Baskota. The bank has also signed a MoU with the university to conduct the second batch of Nabil SSE program which was signed between CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Dhungana, Deputy Chair of the bank Mr. Nirvan Chaudhari, VC of TU Prof. Dr. Dharmakant Baskota and TUSOM Dean Prof. Dr. Dilli Raj Sharma amid the same event. Nabil Bank has concluded the first edition of its Nabil SSE Fellowship program where its 18 Nabil SSE fellows got graduated. Amid an event at Tribhuvan University Kritipur, the bank has seen off its 18 outgoing Nabil SSE fellows while welcoming the second batch of its 20 Nabil SSE fellows, as per the media statement. The event was also attended by Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Manoj Gyawali, Dean of TUSOM Prof. Dr. Dilli Raj Sharma, VC of the university Prof. Dr. DharmaKant Baskota. The bank has also signed a MoU with the university to conduct the second batch of Nabil SSE program which was signed between CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Dhungana, Deputy Chair of the bank Mr. Nirvan Chaudhari, VC of TU Prof. Dr. Dharmakant Baskota and TUSOM Dean Prof. Dr. Dilli Raj Sharma amid the same event. "
2023-01-06,Nabil Bank and Aloi join hands for Digital Green Financing,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-aloi-join-hands-for-digital-green-financing-2023-01-06,"Nabil Bank Ltd. has entered into an agreement with Aloi Private Limited to digitize green and sustainable financing. With this strategic partnership, Nabil Bank will explore, evaluate, cooperate, and work towards providing digital lending services to the electric commercial vehicles using Aloi’s digital loan and repayment tracking system more effectively. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Senior Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank Ltd. and Sonika Manandhar, Cofounder of Aloi Private Limited signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for this partnership. Senior DCEO Shakya said that the bank took an extra step to finance commercial electric vehicle as sustainable financing.  As a part of sustainable banking, the bank encourages entrepreneurs seeking to purchase commercial electric vehicles to avail loan with attractive pricing and easier processing. Aloi owns and operates a Digital Loan Utilization Monitoring Software currently working in two green sectors i.e. Agriculture and Electric Vehicle. The agreement has been signed for loan repayment tracking of Electric Vehicle Financing.   Nabil Bank Ltd. has entered into an agreement with Aloi Private Limited to digitize green and sustainable financing. With this strategic partnership, Nabil Bank will explore, evaluate, cooperate, and work towards providing digital lending services to the electric commercial vehicles using Aloi’s digital loan and repayment tracking system more effectively. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Senior Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank Ltd. and Sonika Manandhar, Cofounder of Aloi Private Limited signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for this partnership. Senior DCEO Shakya said that the bank took an extra step to finance commercial electric vehicle as sustainable financing.  As a part of sustainable banking, the bank encourages entrepreneurs seeking to purchase commercial electric vehicles to avail loan with attractive pricing and easier processing. Aloi owns and operates a Digital Loan Utilization Monitoring Software currently working in two green sectors i.e. Agriculture and Electric Vehicle. The agreement has been signed for loan repayment tracking of Electric Vehicle Financing.   Nabil Bank Ltd. has entered into an agreement with Aloi Private Limited to digitize green and sustainable financing. With this strategic partnership, Nabil Bank will explore, evaluate, cooperate, and work towards providing digital lending services to the electric commercial vehicles using Aloi’s digital loan and repayment tracking system more effectively. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Senior Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank Ltd. and Sonika Manandhar, Cofounder of Aloi Private Limited signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for this partnership. Senior DCEO Shakya said that the bank took an extra step to finance commercial electric vehicle as sustainable financing.  As a part of sustainable banking, the bank encourages entrepreneurs seeking to purchase commercial electric vehicles to avail loan with attractive pricing and easier processing. Aloi owns and operates a Digital Loan Utilization Monitoring Software currently working in two green sectors i.e. Agriculture and Electric Vehicle. The agreement has been signed for loan repayment tracking of Electric Vehicle Financing.   "
2023-01-02,Nabil Bank signs MOU with MiDas Education,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-signs-mou-with-midas-education-2023-01-02,"Nabil Bank has signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with MiDas Education Pvt. Ltd. for availing special discounts on MiDas e-learning materials for Nabil account holders. With this partnership, Nabil account holders can get a MiDas self-learning materials at just Rs. 800 for a year and shall receive a discount of 25% on tuition, homework help, doubt clearance and exam preparation classes. According to the bank, the main objective of the MOU is to provide special waiver to accountholders in teaching learning activities through the digital platform. MiDas eCLASS is a teaching and learning software that has tutorial videos and interactive games of all chapters of school book. Nabil Bank has signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with MiDas Education Pvt. Ltd. for availing special discounts on MiDas e-learning materials for Nabil account holders. With this partnership, Nabil account holders can get a MiDas self-learning materials at just Rs. 800 for a year and shall receive a discount of 25% on tuition, homework help, doubt clearance and exam preparation classes. According to the bank, the main objective of the MOU is to provide special waiver to accountholders in teaching learning activities through the digital platform. MiDas eCLASS is a teaching and learning software that has tutorial videos and interactive games of all chapters of school book. Nabil Bank has signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with MiDas Education Pvt. Ltd. for availing special discounts on MiDas e-learning materials for Nabil account holders. With this partnership, Nabil account holders can get a MiDas self-learning materials at just Rs. 800 for a year and shall receive a discount of 25% on tuition, homework help, doubt clearance and exam preparation classes. According to the bank, the main objective of the MOU is to provide special waiver to accountholders in teaching learning activities through the digital platform. MiDas eCLASS is a teaching and learning software that has tutorial videos and interactive games of all chapters of school book. "
2023-01-01,Reminder! Last Day to Grab Dividend Proposed by These Six Companies,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/reminder-last-day-to-grab-dividend-proposed-by-these-six-companies-2023-01-01,"Today is the last day to grab dividends proposed by Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited (NTC), Butwal Power Company Limited (BPCL), Siddhartha Insurance Limited (SIL), Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL), Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank Limited (MLBL). Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited (NTC) has called its 15th AGM on Poush 28, 2079. The AGM will be held at Rashtriya Sabha Ghriya, Bhrikutimandap, Kathmandu from 10 AM. Among the other agendas, the AGM will endorse a cash dividend of Rs 40 per share, from the net profit of FY 2078/79. The meeting will also endorse the auditor's report with PL statements, financial reports, and cash flow reports and appoint an auditor for the fiscal year 2078/79 and 2079/80. Butwal Power Company Limited (BPCL) has called its 30th AGM on Poush 30, i.e. January 14. The meeting will be organized in Karki Banquet, Kathmandu, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend of 12.5 percent for the fiscal year 2078/79. The meeting of the board of directors held on Poush 7 decided to distribute 5% of the paid-up capital as bonus shares for the fiscal year 2078/79. The company is issuing bonus shares to the shareholders in order to increase the current paid-up capital from Rs. 3.24 Arba to Rs. 3.40 Arba. On the other hand, the company has also proposed a 7.5% cash dividend (including tax) for the Fiscal Year 2078/79. Siddhartha Insurance Limited (SIL) has called its 21st AGM on 29th Poush, 2079. The meeting will be held in the Bhrikuti Mandap, Nepal Tourism Board, Kathmandu. The AGM will commence at 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the 9.4737% dividend for the fiscal year 2078/79. The meeting of the board of directors held on Poush 7 has proposed a 9% bonus shares and 0.4737 % cash dividend (for tax purposes) from the paid-up capital for the fiscal year 2078/79. The dividend will be distributed from the paid-up capital of Rs. 1.28 Arba. Thus, the bonus shares amounting to Rs. 11.59 crores and cash dividends amounting to Rs. 61.01 Lakh will be distributed. Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) has called its 30th AGM on 28th Poush, 2079. The meeting will be held in the Hotel Soaltee, Soltimode, Kathmandu, starting at 11 am that day. Among the other agendas, the AGM will endorse a 19.11% dividend for FY 2078/79. The 427th board of directors meeting on Poush 05 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital. 11.11% bonus shares and 8% cash dividends have been proposed.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has called its 38th AGM on 29th Poush, 2079. The meeting will be held in the Silver Oak Banquet, Gairidhara, Kathmandu, starting at 10 AM that day. Among the other agendas, the AGM will endorse a 30% dividend for FY 2078/79. The board of directors meeting on Mangsir 25 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 22.83 Arba. 18.50% bonus shares worth Rs 4.22 Arba and 11.5% cash dividend (including bonus shares tax purposes) worth Rs 2.61 Arba have been proposed. Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank Limited (MLBL) has called its 21st AGM on 29th Poush, 2079. The meeting will be held in Nepal Stock Compound, Lainchaur Banquet, Kathmandu, starting from 10 AM that day. Among the other agendas, the AGM will endorse 10.47% for the Fiscal Year 2078/79. The 548th meeting of the board of directors of Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank Limited (MLBL) held on Poush 01 decided to distribute the dividend of 10.47% of the Fiscal Year 2078/79. Likewise, a Cash Dividend of 6.47% and Bonus Shares of 4% have been proposed from the paid-up capital of Rs. 4.01 Arba. Poush 18 is the book closure date for all six companies. Thus, shareholders maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the respective AGMs. Today is the last day to grab dividends proposed by Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited (NTC), Butwal Power Company Limited (BPCL), Siddhartha Insurance Limited (SIL), Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL), Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank Limited (MLBL). Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited (NTC) has called its 15th AGM on Poush 28, 2079. The AGM will be held at Rashtriya Sabha Ghriya, Bhrikutimandap, Kathmandu from 10 AM. Among the other agendas, the AGM will endorse a cash dividend of Rs 40 per share, from the net profit of FY 2078/79. The meeting will also endorse the auditor's report with PL statements, financial reports, and cash flow reports and appoint an auditor for the fiscal year 2078/79 and 2079/80. Butwal Power Company Limited (BPCL) has called its 30th AGM on Poush 30, i.e. January 14. The meeting will be organized in Karki Banquet, Kathmandu, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend of 12.5 percent for the fiscal year 2078/79. The meeting of the board of directors held on Poush 7 decided to distribute 5% of the paid-up capital as bonus shares for the fiscal year 2078/79. The company is issuing bonus shares to the shareholders in order to increase the current paid-up capital from Rs. 3.24 Arba to Rs. 3.40 Arba. On the other hand, the company has also proposed a 7.5% cash dividend (including tax) for the Fiscal Year 2078/79. Siddhartha Insurance Limited (SIL) has called its 21st AGM on 29th Poush, 2079. The meeting will be held in the Bhrikuti Mandap, Nepal Tourism Board, Kathmandu. The AGM will commence at 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the 9.4737% dividend for the fiscal year 2078/79. The meeting of the board of directors held on Poush 7 has proposed a 9% bonus shares and 0.4737 % cash dividend (for tax purposes) from the paid-up capital for the fiscal year 2078/79. The dividend will be distributed from the paid-up capital of Rs. 1.28 Arba. Thus, the bonus shares amounting to Rs. 11.59 crores and cash dividends amounting to Rs. 61.01 Lakh will be distributed. Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) has called its 30th AGM on 28th Poush, 2079. The meeting will be held in the Hotel Soaltee, Soltimode, Kathmandu, starting at 11 am that day. Among the other agendas, the AGM will endorse a 19.11% dividend for FY 2078/79. The 427th board of directors meeting on Poush 05 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital. 11.11% bonus shares and 8% cash dividends have been proposed.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has called its 38th AGM on 29th Poush, 2079. The meeting will be held in the Silver Oak Banquet, Gairidhara, Kathmandu, starting at 10 AM that day. Among the other agendas, the AGM will endorse a 30% dividend for FY 2078/79. The board of directors meeting on Mangsir 25 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 22.83 Arba. 18.50% bonus shares worth Rs 4.22 Arba and 11.5% cash dividend (including bonus shares tax purposes) worth Rs 2.61 Arba have been proposed. Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank Limited (MLBL) has called its 21st AGM on 29th Poush, 2079. The meeting will be held in Nepal Stock Compound, Lainchaur Banquet, Kathmandu, starting from 10 AM that day. Among the other agendas, the AGM will endorse 10.47% for the Fiscal Year 2078/79. The 548th meeting of the board of directors of Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank Limited (MLBL) held on Poush 01 decided to distribute the dividend of 10.47% of the Fiscal Year 2078/79. Likewise, a Cash Dividend of 6.47% and Bonus Shares of 4% have been proposed from the paid-up capital of Rs. 4.01 Arba. Poush 18 is the book closure date for all six companies. Thus, shareholders maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the respective AGMs. Today is the last day to grab dividends proposed by Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited (NTC), Butwal Power Company Limited (BPCL), Siddhartha Insurance Limited (SIL), Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL), Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank Limited (MLBL). Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited (NTC) has called its 15th AGM on Poush 28, 2079. The AGM will be held at Rashtriya Sabha Ghriya, Bhrikutimandap, Kathmandu from 10 AM. Among the other agendas, the AGM will endorse a cash dividend of Rs 40 per share, from the net profit of FY 2078/79. The meeting will also endorse the auditor's report with PL statements, financial reports, and cash flow reports and appoint an auditor for the fiscal year 2078/79 and 2079/80. Butwal Power Company Limited (BPCL) has called its 30th AGM on Poush 30, i.e. January 14. The meeting will be organized in Karki Banquet, Kathmandu, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend of 12.5 percent for the fiscal year 2078/79. The meeting of the board of directors held on Poush 7 decided to distribute 5% of the paid-up capital as bonus shares for the fiscal year 2078/79. The company is issuing bonus shares to the shareholders in order to increase the current paid-up capital from Rs. 3.24 Arba to Rs. 3.40 Arba. On the other hand, the company has also proposed a 7.5% cash dividend (including tax) for the Fiscal Year 2078/79. Siddhartha Insurance Limited (SIL) has called its 21st AGM on 29th Poush, 2079. The meeting will be held in the Bhrikuti Mandap, Nepal Tourism Board, Kathmandu. The AGM will commence at 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the 9.4737% dividend for the fiscal year 2078/79. The meeting of the board of directors held on Poush 7 has proposed a 9% bonus shares and 0.4737 % cash dividend (for tax purposes) from the paid-up capital for the fiscal year 2078/79. The dividend will be distributed from the paid-up capital of Rs. 1.28 Arba. Thus, the bonus shares amounting to Rs. 11.59 crores and cash dividends amounting to Rs. 61.01 Lakh will be distributed. Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) has called its 30th AGM on 28th Poush, 2079. The meeting will be held in the Hotel Soaltee, Soltimode, Kathmandu, starting at 11 am that day. Among the other agendas, the AGM will endorse a 19.11% dividend for FY 2078/79. The 427th board of directors meeting on Poush 05 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital. 11.11% bonus shares and 8% cash dividends have been proposed.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has called its 38th AGM on 29th Poush, 2079. The meeting will be held in the Silver Oak Banquet, Gairidhara, Kathmandu, starting at 10 AM that day. Among the other agendas, the AGM will endorse a 30% dividend for FY 2078/79. The board of directors meeting on Mangsir 25 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 22.83 Arba. 18.50% bonus shares worth Rs 4.22 Arba and 11.5% cash dividend (including bonus shares tax purposes) worth Rs 2.61 Arba have been proposed. Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank Limited (MLBL) has called its 21st AGM on 29th Poush, 2079. The meeting will be held in Nepal Stock Compound, Lainchaur Banquet, Kathmandu, starting from 10 AM that day. Among the other agendas, the AGM will endorse 10.47% for the Fiscal Year 2078/79. The 548th meeting of the board of directors of Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank Limited (MLBL) held on Poush 01 decided to distribute the dividend of 10.47% of the Fiscal Year 2078/79. Likewise, a Cash Dividend of 6.47% and Bonus Shares of 4% have been proposed from the paid-up capital of Rs. 4.01 Arba. Poush 18 is the book closure date for all six companies. Thus, shareholders maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the respective AGMs. "
2022-12-23,Nabil launches Nepal’s First Neo Bank nBank; establishes nBank as virtual branch within the Bank to create simple and intuitive customer journey,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-launches-nepals-first-neo-bank-nbank-establishes-nbank-as-virtual-branch-within-the-bank-to-create-simple-and-intuitive-customer-journey-2022-12-23,"Nabil Bank Limited has launched nBank – Nepal’s first Neo Bank, virtually today. With this historic step, Nabil Bank has transformed from being computerized bank to digital bank. Hosting a virtual launching program, Chairman Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Vice Chairman Nirvana Chaudhary, Chief Executive Officer Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, and Deputy Chief Executive Officer nBank & Operations Binaya Kumar Regmi jointly launched nBank, the country’s first ever Neo Bank by completely revamping the mobile banking app. Nabil Bank believes that nBank signifies Nabil Bank’s commitment to lead the way on the digital front. Nabil Bank has established nBank as a virtual branch within the Bank to create simple and intuitive customer journey across all digital touchpoints. Chairman Poudyal said that nBank will transform the banking behavior of people and will contribute significantly in sustainable banking. Addressing the launching event, Vice Chairman Chaudhary said, “nBank will lead the ‘change in banking’ sector as customers can experience innovative digital banking services available 24/7 throughout a year accessible from anywhere.” Stating that Trustworthiness and personal relationship are two key factors consumers value, he said, “nBank is truly personalized virtual banking without any physical branch.” By using nBank, customers can easily perform all traditional banking services like account opening, deposits, lending, payments and more using their mobile device in no time. Stating that it saves time and cost drastically, Chaudhary said, “nBank is the answer to future banking requirements.” In the program, CEO Dhungana expressed his happiness and said, “I am thrilled to announce the official launch of nbank. We have completed all data migration and system upgrade and today Nabil SmartBank app transformed to nBank for better banking experience.” nbank caters to all Nabil Bank customers who choose to do their banking online: from opening their accounts, to getting digital loans. “Today marks the beginning of a neo era in the Nepalese banking industry with launching the completely-digital bank, nBank,” said DCEO Regmi adding that Nabil Bank has been leading the way in digital technologies. He further said, “We have created digital products and services that will completely change the way you bank.” What is nBank? nBank – Nepal’s first Neo Bank – is a digital bank launched by Nabil Bank for the first time in Nepal by completely revamping the mobile banking app. Customers who were previously using the Nabil SmartBank app receives an update where the logo transforms from the Nabil’s ‘A’ to nBank’s ‘n’. Furthermore, the look & feel of the app has been updated to provide a fresh and modern user interface. For those who have not opened their accounts in Nabil Bank can now open their bank accounts through nBank app installed in their mobile. Nabil Bank claimed that it will take 30 seconds to open an account through nBank. Customers can now perform a whole range of activities – from opening their bank accounts to applying for loans – directly from the nBank app. A few major features of nBank include: Customers can open their nSavings account directly from their nBank app under 30 seconds. Customers only need to fill out their name, Date of Birth, email address, mobile number, and citizenship number to open an account. The opened account will be operative for 15 days before customers need to update their KYC, which they can do so directly from their nBank app. Customers can apply for instant digital loans directly from their nBank app. There are two types of digital loans customers can apply for from their app: Nabil foneLoan and Loan Against Fixed Deposit. Customers can avail Nabil foneloan based on their six-month transaction history. The Bank’s algorithm determines appropriate credit limit, and eligible customers can register for the loan and apply up to the stipulated limit directly from their nBank app. No bank visits, no paperwork, no hassles. Besides sending money within Nepal, customers residing abroad can send money from their international banks directly to a Nabil Bank Account using their Mastercard or Visa Cards by selecting nRemit. They only need to fill up a form with the sender and receiver details, along with the amount (in USD) to be sent. The receiver will get the money directly into their Nabil Bank account within seconds. Customers residing abroad can register for the nBank app using their international number and operate their Nabil Bank account. Customers residing abroad will receive SMS Alerts, OTP notifications, and even news & alerts from Nabil Bank. The Bank provides 24/7 service to its customers through the Bank’s Customer Care Centre and video KYC solution. Besides these, customers can apply for a host of banking services directly from their app: Moreover, the following informational services can also be accessed from the app: With nBank, customers can do everything they used to do on their mobile banking app, and so much more. By creating nBank, the first neo bank of Nepal, Nabil Bank has once again proven to set an example to the entire banking industry on the digital frontier. Nabil Bank Limited has launched nBank – Nepal’s first Neo Bank, virtually today. With this historic step, Nabil Bank has transformed from being computerized bank to digital bank. Hosting a virtual launching program, Chairman Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Vice Chairman Nirvana Chaudhary, Chief Executive Officer Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, and Deputy Chief Executive Officer nBank & Operations Binaya Kumar Regmi jointly launched nBank, the country’s first ever Neo Bank by completely revamping the mobile banking app. Nabil Bank believes that nBank signifies Nabil Bank’s commitment to lead the way on the digital front. Nabil Bank has established nBank as a virtual branch within the Bank to create simple and intuitive customer journey across all digital touchpoints. Chairman Poudyal said that nBank will transform the banking behavior of people and will contribute significantly in sustainable banking. Addressing the launching event, Vice Chairman Chaudhary said, “nBank will lead the ‘change in banking’ sector as customers can experience innovative digital banking services available 24/7 throughout a year accessible from anywhere.” Stating that Trustworthiness and personal relationship are two key factors consumers value, he said, “nBank is truly personalized virtual banking without any physical branch.” By using nBank, customers can easily perform all traditional banking services like account opening, deposits, lending, payments and more using their mobile device in no time. Stating that it saves time and cost drastically, Chaudhary said, “nBank is the answer to future banking requirements.” In the program, CEO Dhungana expressed his happiness and said, “I am thrilled to announce the official launch of nbank. We have completed all data migration and system upgrade and today Nabil SmartBank app transformed to nBank for better banking experience.” nbank caters to all Nabil Bank customers who choose to do their banking online: from opening their accounts, to getting digital loans. “Today marks the beginning of a neo era in the Nepalese banking industry with launching the completely-digital bank, nBank,” said DCEO Regmi adding that Nabil Bank has been leading the way in digital technologies. He further said, “We have created digital products and services that will completely change the way you bank.” What is nBank? nBank – Nepal’s first Neo Bank – is a digital bank launched by Nabil Bank for the first time in Nepal by completely revamping the mobile banking app. Customers who were previously using the Nabil SmartBank app receives an update where the logo transforms from the Nabil’s ‘A’ to nBank’s ‘n’. Furthermore, the look & feel of the app has been updated to provide a fresh and modern user interface. For those who have not opened their accounts in Nabil Bank can now open their bank accounts through nBank app installed in their mobile. Nabil Bank claimed that it will take 30 seconds to open an account through nBank. Customers can now perform a whole range of activities – from opening their bank accounts to applying for loans – directly from the nBank app. A few major features of nBank include: Customers can open their nSavings account directly from their nBank app under 30 seconds. Customers only need to fill out their name, Date of Birth, email address, mobile number, and citizenship number to open an account. The opened account will be operative for 15 days before customers need to update their KYC, which they can do so directly from their nBank app. Customers can apply for instant digital loans directly from their nBank app. There are two types of digital loans customers can apply for from their app: Nabil foneLoan and Loan Against Fixed Deposit. Customers can avail Nabil foneloan based on their six-month transaction history. The Bank’s algorithm determines appropriate credit limit, and eligible customers can register for the loan and apply up to the stipulated limit directly from their nBank app. No bank visits, no paperwork, no hassles. Besides sending money within Nepal, customers residing abroad can send money from their international banks directly to a Nabil Bank Account using their Mastercard or Visa Cards by selecting nRemit. They only need to fill up a form with the sender and receiver details, along with the amount (in USD) to be sent. The receiver will get the money directly into their Nabil Bank account within seconds. Customers residing abroad can register for the nBank app using their international number and operate their Nabil Bank account. Customers residing abroad will receive SMS Alerts, OTP notifications, and even news & alerts from Nabil Bank. The Bank provides 24/7 service to its customers through the Bank’s Customer Care Centre and video KYC solution. Besides these, customers can apply for a host of banking services directly from their app: Moreover, the following informational services can also be accessed from the app: With nBank, customers can do everything they used to do on their mobile banking app, and so much more. By creating nBank, the first neo bank of Nepal, Nabil Bank has once again proven to set an example to the entire banking industry on the digital frontier. Nabil Bank Limited has launched nBank – Nepal’s first Neo Bank, virtually today. With this historic step, Nabil Bank has transformed from being computerized bank to digital bank. Hosting a virtual launching program, Chairman Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Vice Chairman Nirvana Chaudhary, Chief Executive Officer Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, and Deputy Chief Executive Officer nBank & Operations Binaya Kumar Regmi jointly launched nBank, the country’s first ever Neo Bank by completely revamping the mobile banking app. Nabil Bank believes that nBank signifies Nabil Bank’s commitment to lead the way on the digital front. Nabil Bank has established nBank as a virtual branch within the Bank to create simple and intuitive customer journey across all digital touchpoints. Chairman Poudyal said that nBank will transform the banking behavior of people and will contribute significantly in sustainable banking. Addressing the launching event, Vice Chairman Chaudhary said, “nBank will lead the ‘change in banking’ sector as customers can experience innovative digital banking services available 24/7 throughout a year accessible from anywhere.” Stating that Trustworthiness and personal relationship are two key factors consumers value, he said, “nBank is truly personalized virtual banking without any physical branch.” By using nBank, customers can easily perform all traditional banking services like account opening, deposits, lending, payments and more using their mobile device in no time. Stating that it saves time and cost drastically, Chaudhary said, “nBank is the answer to future banking requirements.” In the program, CEO Dhungana expressed his happiness and said, “I am thrilled to announce the official launch of nbank. We have completed all data migration and system upgrade and today Nabil SmartBank app transformed to nBank for better banking experience.” nbank caters to all Nabil Bank customers who choose to do their banking online: from opening their accounts, to getting digital loans. “Today marks the beginning of a neo era in the Nepalese banking industry with launching the completely-digital bank, nBank,” said DCEO Regmi adding that Nabil Bank has been leading the way in digital technologies. He further said, “We have created digital products and services that will completely change the way you bank.” What is nBank? nBank – Nepal’s first Neo Bank – is a digital bank launched by Nabil Bank for the first time in Nepal by completely revamping the mobile banking app. Customers who were previously using the Nabil SmartBank app receives an update where the logo transforms from the Nabil’s ‘A’ to nBank’s ‘n’. Furthermore, the look & feel of the app has been updated to provide a fresh and modern user interface. For those who have not opened their accounts in Nabil Bank can now open their bank accounts through nBank app installed in their mobile. Nabil Bank claimed that it will take 30 seconds to open an account through nBank. Customers can now perform a whole range of activities – from opening their bank accounts to applying for loans – directly from the nBank app. A few major features of nBank include: Customers can open their nSavings account directly from their nBank app under 30 seconds. Customers only need to fill out their name, Date of Birth, email address, mobile number, and citizenship number to open an account. The opened account will be operative for 15 days before customers need to update their KYC, which they can do so directly from their nBank app. Customers can apply for instant digital loans directly from their nBank app. There are two types of digital loans customers can apply for from their app: Nabil foneLoan and Loan Against Fixed Deposit. Customers can avail Nabil foneloan based on their six-month transaction history. The Bank’s algorithm determines appropriate credit limit, and eligible customers can register for the loan and apply up to the stipulated limit directly from their nBank app. No bank visits, no paperwork, no hassles. Besides sending money within Nepal, customers residing abroad can send money from their international banks directly to a Nabil Bank Account using their Mastercard or Visa Cards by selecting nRemit. They only need to fill up a form with the sender and receiver details, along with the amount (in USD) to be sent. The receiver will get the money directly into their Nabil Bank account within seconds. Customers residing abroad can register for the nBank app using their international number and operate their Nabil Bank account. Customers residing abroad will receive SMS Alerts, OTP notifications, and even news & alerts from Nabil Bank. The Bank provides 24/7 service to its customers through the Bank’s Customer Care Centre and video KYC solution. Besides these, customers can apply for a host of banking services directly from their app: Moreover, the following informational services can also be accessed from the app: With nBank, customers can do everything they used to do on their mobile banking app, and so much more. By creating nBank, the first neo bank of Nepal, Nabil Bank has once again proven to set an example to the entire banking industry on the digital frontier. "
2022-12-21,Nabil Bank To Conduct 38th AGM On 29th Poush; To Endorse 30% Dividend,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-conduct-38th-agm-on-29th-poush-to-endorse-30-dividend-2022-12-21,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has called its 38th AGM on 29th Poush, 2079. The meeting will be held in the Silver Oak Banquet, Gairidhara, Kathmandu, starting at 10 AM that day. Among the other agendas, the AGM will endorse a 30% dividend for FY 2078/79. The board of directors meeting on Mangsir 25 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 22.83 Arba. 18.50% bonus shares worth Rs 4.22 Arba and 11.5% cash dividend (including bonus shares tax purposes) worth Rs 2.61 Arba have been proposed. Furthermore, there is an agenda to endorse the auditor's report with PL statements, financial reports, and cash flow reports and appoint an auditor for the fiscal year 2079/80. The meeting will also elect directors from the promoter shareholding group. The book closure date is on Poush 18. Thus, shareholders maintained before that day are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend this AGM.   AGM Notice Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has called its 38th AGM on 29th Poush, 2079. The meeting will be held in the Silver Oak Banquet, Gairidhara, Kathmandu, starting at 10 AM that day. Among the other agendas, the AGM will endorse a 30% dividend for FY 2078/79. The board of directors meeting on Mangsir 25 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 22.83 Arba. 18.50% bonus shares worth Rs 4.22 Arba and 11.5% cash dividend (including bonus shares tax purposes) worth Rs 2.61 Arba have been proposed. Furthermore, there is an agenda to endorse the auditor's report with PL statements, financial reports, and cash flow reports and appoint an auditor for the fiscal year 2079/80. The meeting will also elect directors from the promoter shareholding group. The book closure date is on Poush 18. Thus, shareholders maintained before that day are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend this AGM.   AGM Notice Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has called its 38th AGM on 29th Poush, 2079. The meeting will be held in the Silver Oak Banquet, Gairidhara, Kathmandu, starting at 10 AM that day. Among the other agendas, the AGM will endorse a 30% dividend for FY 2078/79. The board of directors meeting on Mangsir 25 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 22.83 Arba. 18.50% bonus shares worth Rs 4.22 Arba and 11.5% cash dividend (including bonus shares tax purposes) worth Rs 2.61 Arba have been proposed. Furthermore, there is an agenda to endorse the auditor's report with PL statements, financial reports, and cash flow reports and appoint an auditor for the fiscal year 2079/80. The meeting will also elect directors from the promoter shareholding group. The book closure date is on Poush 18. Thus, shareholders maintained before that day are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend this AGM.   AGM Notice "
2022-12-20,Nabil continues critical illness insurance coverage to its account holders; registers total claim of 338 cases worth Rs 6.29 crore so far,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-continues-critical-illness-insurance-coverage-to-its-account-holders-registers-total-claim-of-338-cases-worth-rs-629-crore-so-far-2022-12-20,"Nabil Bank has continued ‘Critical Illness Insurance Coverage Scheme’ for fifth year to all personal saving account holders. The scheme has proven to be effective with total claim of 338 including 159 term life insurance claim and 179 critical illness claim amounting to Rs 62.94 million since its inception in 2018. The total premium paid by bank under this scheme amounted to Rs. 160.77 million in last 4 fiscal years. With a virtuous intent to support during critical illness, Nabil introduced Critical Illness Insurance of Rs. 300,000 and term life insurance of Rs. 75,000 partnering with Met Life Insurance. Under this insurance package, the saving account holders of Nabil Bank can get financial assistance for medical treatment against 13 Critical illness including major cancers, first heart attack, kidney failure, serious coronary artery disease, heart valve surgery, primary pulmonary hypertension, end stage lung disease and stage liver failure, fulminant hepatitis, coma, aplastic anaemia, and major organ transplantation. This scheme stood out to be significant in the Nepalese community where the case of critical illness is increasing day by day. The esteemed feature of this scheme where the premium amount is borne by bank itself has helped to neutralize the mental pressure among the people against the financial problem to defeat critical illness. The bank is providing the facilities under the scheme to its customers through its all branches. Keeping in view the success and interest of customer in this scheme, the bank has expressed its commitment to refine the services and facilities as per the needs of the time. Nabil Bank has continued ‘Critical Illness Insurance Coverage Scheme’ for fifth year to all personal saving account holders. The scheme has proven to be effective with total claim of 338 including 159 term life insurance claim and 179 critical illness claim amounting to Rs 62.94 million since its inception in 2018. The total premium paid by bank under this scheme amounted to Rs. 160.77 million in last 4 fiscal years. With a virtuous intent to support during critical illness, Nabil introduced Critical Illness Insurance of Rs. 300,000 and term life insurance of Rs. 75,000 partnering with Met Life Insurance. Under this insurance package, the saving account holders of Nabil Bank can get financial assistance for medical treatment against 13 Critical illness including major cancers, first heart attack, kidney failure, serious coronary artery disease, heart valve surgery, primary pulmonary hypertension, end stage lung disease and stage liver failure, fulminant hepatitis, coma, aplastic anaemia, and major organ transplantation. This scheme stood out to be significant in the Nepalese community where the case of critical illness is increasing day by day. The esteemed feature of this scheme where the premium amount is borne by bank itself has helped to neutralize the mental pressure among the people against the financial problem to defeat critical illness. The bank is providing the facilities under the scheme to its customers through its all branches. Keeping in view the success and interest of customer in this scheme, the bank has expressed its commitment to refine the services and facilities as per the needs of the time. Nabil Bank has continued ‘Critical Illness Insurance Coverage Scheme’ for fifth year to all personal saving account holders. The scheme has proven to be effective with total claim of 338 including 159 term life insurance claim and 179 critical illness claim amounting to Rs 62.94 million since its inception in 2018. The total premium paid by bank under this scheme amounted to Rs. 160.77 million in last 4 fiscal years. With a virtuous intent to support during critical illness, Nabil introduced Critical Illness Insurance of Rs. 300,000 and term life insurance of Rs. 75,000 partnering with Met Life Insurance. Under this insurance package, the saving account holders of Nabil Bank can get financial assistance for medical treatment against 13 Critical illness including major cancers, first heart attack, kidney failure, serious coronary artery disease, heart valve surgery, primary pulmonary hypertension, end stage lung disease and stage liver failure, fulminant hepatitis, coma, aplastic anaemia, and major organ transplantation. This scheme stood out to be significant in the Nepalese community where the case of critical illness is increasing day by day. The esteemed feature of this scheme where the premium amount is borne by bank itself has helped to neutralize the mental pressure among the people against the financial problem to defeat critical illness. The bank is providing the facilities under the scheme to its customers through its all branches. Keeping in view the success and interest of customer in this scheme, the bank has expressed its commitment to refine the services and facilities as per the needs of the time. "
2022-12-14,Nabil SSE provides certificates to 25 aspiring entrepreneurs,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-sse-provides-certificates-to-25-aspiring-entrepreneurs-2022-12-14,"Nabil Bank has provided certificates to 25 young aspiring entrepreneurs participated in Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship (Nabil SSE) Certification Course from Bagmati Province on December 11, 2022. Nirvana Chaudhary, Vice Chairman of Nabil Bank, handed over certificates to participants in ‘Reflection and Celebrations Certificate Distribution Program’ held at Campion College. In his keynote speech, Chaudhary said that thousands of youths are leaving the country not willingly but in search of better opportunities. He thanked and congratulated all Nabil SSE participants to take a bold step and be part of social entrepreneurship to make difference in the society. Stating that entrepreneurs are not born but made, Chaudhary said, “I hear youths discussing various ideas and business plans. However, due to lack of proper mentorship and direction, their ideas could not turn into reality. The initiation that Nabil took a year ago is now making difference to the life of young people providing the direction and platform.” Nabil Bank, under its CSR initiative has introduced Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship Program since November 2021 in collaboration with academic institutions at all 7 provinces of Nepal. According to the bank, a 14-day long training spread over 3-month period on Social Entrepreneurship provided training on four themes — knowledge enhancement, skill-set, mind-set and resources — in a practical approach. The course provided the participants with an opportunity to learn from the entrepreneur’s experience, experts in the field, field visits, case studies and workshops. Bhupendra Pandey, Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Nabil Bank said that Nabil is always ready to support start-ups, small and medium enterprises in terms of providing education, enhancing financial literacy and supporting financially. Principal of Campion College, Anamika Shrivastava expressed her gratitude to Nabil Bank and congratulated the participants for being a part of this great initiative and appreciated the change Nabil SSE Program has brought in the participants. Mahesh Sharma, one of the students, thanked Nabil SSE for providing a learning platform and direction to his idea. He along with his other two like-minded friends initiated ‘Art Sewa’ business venture that works towards promoting local Mithila art by engaging local women to produce various products. He said that the program inspired him to do something of his own and contribute to the society through entrepreneurship. Nabil SSE Certificate Course is implemented in the partnering colleges at all provinces throughout the year, where participants can register for their participation. Altogether 25 to 30 participants can enroll in a batch. Campion College is calling applications for the second batch of Certificate Course. Nabil Bank has provided certificates to 25 young aspiring entrepreneurs participated in Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship (Nabil SSE) Certification Course from Bagmati Province on December 11, 2022. Nirvana Chaudhary, Vice Chairman of Nabil Bank, handed over certificates to participants in ‘Reflection and Celebrations Certificate Distribution Program’ held at Campion College. In his keynote speech, Chaudhary said that thousands of youths are leaving the country not willingly but in search of better opportunities. He thanked and congratulated all Nabil SSE participants to take a bold step and be part of social entrepreneurship to make difference in the society. Stating that entrepreneurs are not born but made, Chaudhary said, “I hear youths discussing various ideas and business plans. However, due to lack of proper mentorship and direction, their ideas could not turn into reality. The initiation that Nabil took a year ago is now making difference to the life of young people providing the direction and platform.” Nabil Bank, under its CSR initiative has introduced Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship Program since November 2021 in collaboration with academic institutions at all 7 provinces of Nepal. According to the bank, a 14-day long training spread over 3-month period on Social Entrepreneurship provided training on four themes — knowledge enhancement, skill-set, mind-set and resources — in a practical approach. The course provided the participants with an opportunity to learn from the entrepreneur’s experience, experts in the field, field visits, case studies and workshops. Bhupendra Pandey, Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Nabil Bank said that Nabil is always ready to support start-ups, small and medium enterprises in terms of providing education, enhancing financial literacy and supporting financially. Principal of Campion College, Anamika Shrivastava expressed her gratitude to Nabil Bank and congratulated the participants for being a part of this great initiative and appreciated the change Nabil SSE Program has brought in the participants. Mahesh Sharma, one of the students, thanked Nabil SSE for providing a learning platform and direction to his idea. He along with his other two like-minded friends initiated ‘Art Sewa’ business venture that works towards promoting local Mithila art by engaging local women to produce various products. He said that the program inspired him to do something of his own and contribute to the society through entrepreneurship. Nabil SSE Certificate Course is implemented in the partnering colleges at all provinces throughout the year, where participants can register for their participation. Altogether 25 to 30 participants can enroll in a batch. Campion College is calling applications for the second batch of Certificate Course. Nabil Bank has provided certificates to 25 young aspiring entrepreneurs participated in Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship (Nabil SSE) Certification Course from Bagmati Province on December 11, 2022. Nirvana Chaudhary, Vice Chairman of Nabil Bank, handed over certificates to participants in ‘Reflection and Celebrations Certificate Distribution Program’ held at Campion College. In his keynote speech, Chaudhary said that thousands of youths are leaving the country not willingly but in search of better opportunities. He thanked and congratulated all Nabil SSE participants to take a bold step and be part of social entrepreneurship to make difference in the society. Stating that entrepreneurs are not born but made, Chaudhary said, “I hear youths discussing various ideas and business plans. However, due to lack of proper mentorship and direction, their ideas could not turn into reality. The initiation that Nabil took a year ago is now making difference to the life of young people providing the direction and platform.” Nabil Bank, under its CSR initiative has introduced Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship Program since November 2021 in collaboration with academic institutions at all 7 provinces of Nepal. According to the bank, a 14-day long training spread over 3-month period on Social Entrepreneurship provided training on four themes — knowledge enhancement, skill-set, mind-set and resources — in a practical approach. The course provided the participants with an opportunity to learn from the entrepreneur’s experience, experts in the field, field visits, case studies and workshops. Bhupendra Pandey, Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Nabil Bank said that Nabil is always ready to support start-ups, small and medium enterprises in terms of providing education, enhancing financial literacy and supporting financially. Principal of Campion College, Anamika Shrivastava expressed her gratitude to Nabil Bank and congratulated the participants for being a part of this great initiative and appreciated the change Nabil SSE Program has brought in the participants. Mahesh Sharma, one of the students, thanked Nabil SSE for providing a learning platform and direction to his idea. He along with his other two like-minded friends initiated ‘Art Sewa’ business venture that works towards promoting local Mithila art by engaging local women to produce various products. He said that the program inspired him to do something of his own and contribute to the society through entrepreneurship. Nabil SSE Certificate Course is implemented in the partnering colleges at all provinces throughout the year, where participants can register for their participation. Altogether 25 to 30 participants can enroll in a batch. Campion College is calling applications for the second batch of Certificate Course. "
2022-12-13,Commercial Banks Decides to Maintain the Same Deposit Interest Rate During the Month of Poush as Well,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-decides-to-maintain-the-same-deposit-interest-rate-during-the-month-of-poush-as-well-2022-12-13,"Commercial banks will maintain the same deposit interest rate during the month of Poush as well. The Bankers' Association meeting on Tuesday morning decided that there is no need to raise or lower interest rates because the economic indicators are stable, according to Sunil KC, vice president of the Bankers' Association. Prior to Bhadra, the interest rate on individual term deposits was 11.03 percent, on institutional term deposits it was 9.03 percent, and on savings, it ranged from a minimum of 6.03 to a maximum of 8.03 to 9.03 percent. Banks in Ashoj maintained interest rates on term deposits at 12.133 percent for individuals, 10.133 percent for institutions, and 13.133 percent for remittances. Some banks have offered remittance interest rates as high as 15%. The same interest rates has been fixed for this month as well.  The finance minister's committee, which was established to lower interest rates, has advocated letting the market set interest rates. Despite the committee's lack of recommendations for an urgent interest rate reduction, bankers have decided to maintain the current rate. As per reports, the banks have not discussed reducing the interest rate as the liquidity has not yet reached a comfortable level with the banks. Commercial banks will maintain the same deposit interest rate during the month of Poush as well. The Bankers' Association meeting on Tuesday morning decided that there is no need to raise or lower interest rates because the economic indicators are stable, according to Sunil KC, vice president of the Bankers' Association. Prior to Bhadra, the interest rate on individual term deposits was 11.03 percent, on institutional term deposits it was 9.03 percent, and on savings, it ranged from a minimum of 6.03 to a maximum of 8.03 to 9.03 percent. Banks in Ashoj maintained interest rates on term deposits at 12.133 percent for individuals, 10.133 percent for institutions, and 13.133 percent for remittances. Some banks have offered remittance interest rates as high as 15%. The same interest rates has been fixed for this month as well.  The finance minister's committee, which was established to lower interest rates, has advocated letting the market set interest rates. Despite the committee's lack of recommendations for an urgent interest rate reduction, bankers have decided to maintain the current rate. As per reports, the banks have not discussed reducing the interest rate as the liquidity has not yet reached a comfortable level with the banks. Commercial banks will maintain the same deposit interest rate during the month of Poush as well. The Bankers' Association meeting on Tuesday morning decided that there is no need to raise or lower interest rates because the economic indicators are stable, according to Sunil KC, vice president of the Bankers' Association. Prior to Bhadra, the interest rate on individual term deposits was 11.03 percent, on institutional term deposits it was 9.03 percent, and on savings, it ranged from a minimum of 6.03 to a maximum of 8.03 to 9.03 percent. Banks in Ashoj maintained interest rates on term deposits at 12.133 percent for individuals, 10.133 percent for institutions, and 13.133 percent for remittances. Some banks have offered remittance interest rates as high as 15%. The same interest rates has been fixed for this month as well.  The finance minister's committee, which was established to lower interest rates, has advocated letting the market set interest rates. Despite the committee's lack of recommendations for an urgent interest rate reduction, bankers have decided to maintain the current rate. As per reports, the banks have not discussed reducing the interest rate as the liquidity has not yet reached a comfortable level with the banks. "
2022-12-13,"Himalayan Capital Markets and Investment Selling 302,545 Units Promoter Shares of Nabil Bank",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/himalayan-capital-markets-and-investment-selling-302545-units-promoter-shares-of-nabil-bank-2022-12-13,"The existing promoter of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL), Himalayan Capital Markets and Investment Pvt. Limited is auctioning 302,545 units of shares to promoter shareholders from today i.e 27th Mangsir, 2079 302,545 units of promoter shares of NABIL will be auctioned. Only existing promoters are eligible to bid for the auction within 35 days from the date of publication of this notice, i.e. 27th Mangsir. The shareholders should submit their bids at the central office of the bank located at Tindhara, Binamarg, Kathmandu. If no bids are received from the existing founder shareholders within the mentioned date, then the shares will be later auctioned to the general public. Recently, NABIL declared a 30% dividend worth Rs. 6.85 Arba for the fiscal year 2078/79. Auction notice The existing promoter of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL), Himalayan Capital Markets and Investment Pvt. Limited is auctioning 302,545 units of shares to promoter shareholders from today i.e 27th Mangsir, 2079 302,545 units of promoter shares of NABIL will be auctioned. Only existing promoters are eligible to bid for the auction within 35 days from the date of publication of this notice, i.e. 27th Mangsir. The shareholders should submit their bids at the central office of the bank located at Tindhara, Binamarg, Kathmandu. If no bids are received from the existing founder shareholders within the mentioned date, then the shares will be later auctioned to the general public. Recently, NABIL declared a 30% dividend worth Rs. 6.85 Arba for the fiscal year 2078/79. Auction notice The existing promoter of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL), Himalayan Capital Markets and Investment Pvt. Limited is auctioning 302,545 units of shares to promoter shareholders from today i.e 27th Mangsir, 2079 302,545 units of promoter shares of NABIL will be auctioned. Only existing promoters are eligible to bid for the auction within 35 days from the date of publication of this notice, i.e. 27th Mangsir. The shareholders should submit their bids at the central office of the bank located at Tindhara, Binamarg, Kathmandu. If no bids are received from the existing founder shareholders within the mentioned date, then the shares will be later auctioned to the general public. Recently, NABIL declared a 30% dividend worth Rs. 6.85 Arba for the fiscal year 2078/79. Auction notice "
2022-12-12,Nabil Bank Certifies First Batch of Campion College's Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship Program,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-certifies-first-batch-of-campion-colleges-nabil-school-of-social-entrepreneurship-program-2022-12-12,"The Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship certification and celebration program was conducted yesterday (December 11, 2022). The program was held at Campion College, Sanepa, Lalitpur, starting at 4 pm. Nabil SSE is the Nabil School for Social Entrepreneurship, a CSR initiative by Nabil Bank Limited, aimed at developing social entrepreneurship in Nepal. The Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship promotes and incubates social entrepreneurship all over Nepal, which aims at improving people’s experience and quality of life and promotes positive social well-being, economic prosperity, and/or environmental sustainability of communities. Nabil Bank, under its CSR initiative, introduced the Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship Program on November 26, 2022, in collaboration with academic institutions in all 7 provinces of Nepal. It has been implementing Fellowship Program in partnership with the Faculty of Management, SOMTU, and Certificate Courses in all provinces of Nepal. Campion College, the implementing partner of the Certificate Course in Bagmati Province has completed its first batch of 25 candidates. Candidates who are already into entrepreneurship or pursuing their studies and willing to learn about social entrepreneurship and contribute to the field have become a part of this program. A 14-day long training spread over a 3-month period on Social Entrepreneurship provided training on the four themes- Knowledge, Skill-set, Mind-Set, and Resources and was conducted in a practical approach. The course provided the participants with an opportunity to learn from the entrepreneur’s experience, experts in the field, field visits, case studies, and workshops. In the program, the welcome speech was delivered by Ms. Roshani Chand, Nabil Bank. Shortly thereafter, Nabil Bank's Vice Chairman and Managing Director at Chaudhary Group (CG), Mr. Nirvana Chaudhary delivered his keynote speech. Chaudhary highlighted that the Chaudhary Group takes the initiative seriously. The Nabil School for Social Entrepreneurship initiative is promoted by Nabil Bank, one of many business verticals of the Chaudhary Group. Chaudhary highlighted that they want the social entrepreneurship initiative to be a highlight of Nabil Bank and the Chaudhary Group in Nepal, like the Tata Group's cancer research initiative, and Gates Foundation's polio and malaria eradication initiative in Africa. Furthermore, congratulating the NSSE certificate recipients, Nirvana Chaudhary hinted that this course will mean a lot more in the real world and will be incredibly useful for them to tackle social entrepreneurship issues than they have now realized. Course completion certificates were then distributed to 25 recipients, followed by a token of love distribution session to NSSE experts. Mr. Bhupendra Pandey, Deputy CEO at Nabil Bank, also expressed his thoughts about the NSSE CSR Initiative of Nabil Bank. Simran Silpakar, a student in BBA 4th semester at Campion College and one of the participants in the Certification Course, shared how the course inspire her and change her mindset of starting on its own. She said, “In our educational system, we learn theories and we believe what is written in books. However, the real world is different than what we read between the lines. This course let us explore and expose us to real scenarios and cases.” Stating that she discovered a lot about the entrepreneurship journey, she said, “I learned that age is not a limit for exploring and getting ideas for starting a business, and failure in the process does not make you unsuccessful.” Thanking the organizer, she said that this kind of program will provide direction to the youngsters to be independent and contribute to society through entrepreneurship. In the end, Mrs. Anamika Shirvastava, Principal at Campion College also delivered a vote of thanks to Nabil Bank, the NSSE experts, and certificate recipients. NABIL School of Social Entrepreneurship describes social entrepreneurs as people who have practical ideas for change, using social entrepreneurial approaches to tackle complex social problems. These enterprising individuals who have identified an unmet social need, find a business model that can sustain & create lasting social impact.  The Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship certification and celebration program was conducted yesterday (December 11, 2022). The program was held at Campion College, Sanepa, Lalitpur, starting at 4 pm. Nabil SSE is the Nabil School for Social Entrepreneurship, a CSR initiative by Nabil Bank Limited, aimed at developing social entrepreneurship in Nepal. The Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship promotes and incubates social entrepreneurship all over Nepal, which aims at improving people’s experience and quality of life and promotes positive social well-being, economic prosperity, and/or environmental sustainability of communities. Nabil Bank, under its CSR initiative, introduced the Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship Program on November 26, 2022, in collaboration with academic institutions in all 7 provinces of Nepal. It has been implementing Fellowship Program in partnership with the Faculty of Management, SOMTU, and Certificate Courses in all provinces of Nepal. Campion College, the implementing partner of the Certificate Course in Bagmati Province has completed its first batch of 25 candidates. Candidates who are already into entrepreneurship or pursuing their studies and willing to learn about social entrepreneurship and contribute to the field have become a part of this program. A 14-day long training spread over a 3-month period on Social Entrepreneurship provided training on the four themes- Knowledge, Skill-set, Mind-Set, and Resources and was conducted in a practical approach. The course provided the participants with an opportunity to learn from the entrepreneur’s experience, experts in the field, field visits, case studies, and workshops. In the program, the welcome speech was delivered by Ms. Roshani Chand, Nabil Bank. Shortly thereafter, Nabil Bank's Vice Chairman and Managing Director at Chaudhary Group (CG), Mr. Nirvana Chaudhary delivered his keynote speech. Chaudhary highlighted that the Chaudhary Group takes the initiative seriously. The Nabil School for Social Entrepreneurship initiative is promoted by Nabil Bank, one of many business verticals of the Chaudhary Group. Chaudhary highlighted that they want the social entrepreneurship initiative to be a highlight of Nabil Bank and the Chaudhary Group in Nepal, like the Tata Group's cancer research initiative, and Gates Foundation's polio and malaria eradication initiative in Africa. Furthermore, congratulating the NSSE certificate recipients, Nirvana Chaudhary hinted that this course will mean a lot more in the real world and will be incredibly useful for them to tackle social entrepreneurship issues than they have now realized. Course completion certificates were then distributed to 25 recipients, followed by a token of love distribution session to NSSE experts. Mr. Bhupendra Pandey, Deputy CEO at Nabil Bank, also expressed his thoughts about the NSSE CSR Initiative of Nabil Bank. Simran Silpakar, a student in BBA 4th semester at Campion College and one of the participants in the Certification Course, shared how the course inspire her and change her mindset of starting on its own. She said, “In our educational system, we learn theories and we believe what is written in books. However, the real world is different than what we read between the lines. This course let us explore and expose us to real scenarios and cases.” Stating that she discovered a lot about the entrepreneurship journey, she said, “I learned that age is not a limit for exploring and getting ideas for starting a business, and failure in the process does not make you unsuccessful.” Thanking the organizer, she said that this kind of program will provide direction to the youngsters to be independent and contribute to society through entrepreneurship. In the end, Mrs. Anamika Shirvastava, Principal at Campion College also delivered a vote of thanks to Nabil Bank, the NSSE experts, and certificate recipients. NABIL School of Social Entrepreneurship describes social entrepreneurs as people who have practical ideas for change, using social entrepreneurial approaches to tackle complex social problems. These enterprising individuals who have identified an unmet social need, find a business model that can sustain & create lasting social impact.  The Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship certification and celebration program was conducted yesterday (December 11, 2022). The program was held at Campion College, Sanepa, Lalitpur, starting at 4 pm. Nabil SSE is the Nabil School for Social Entrepreneurship, a CSR initiative by Nabil Bank Limited, aimed at developing social entrepreneurship in Nepal. The Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship promotes and incubates social entrepreneurship all over Nepal, which aims at improving people’s experience and quality of life and promotes positive social well-being, economic prosperity, and/or environmental sustainability of communities. Nabil Bank, under its CSR initiative, introduced the Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship Program on November 26, 2022, in collaboration with academic institutions in all 7 provinces of Nepal. It has been implementing Fellowship Program in partnership with the Faculty of Management, SOMTU, and Certificate Courses in all provinces of Nepal. Campion College, the implementing partner of the Certificate Course in Bagmati Province has completed its first batch of 25 candidates. Candidates who are already into entrepreneurship or pursuing their studies and willing to learn about social entrepreneurship and contribute to the field have become a part of this program. A 14-day long training spread over a 3-month period on Social Entrepreneurship provided training on the four themes- Knowledge, Skill-set, Mind-Set, and Resources and was conducted in a practical approach. The course provided the participants with an opportunity to learn from the entrepreneur’s experience, experts in the field, field visits, case studies, and workshops. In the program, the welcome speech was delivered by Ms. Roshani Chand, Nabil Bank. Shortly thereafter, Nabil Bank's Vice Chairman and Managing Director at Chaudhary Group (CG), Mr. Nirvana Chaudhary delivered his keynote speech. Chaudhary highlighted that the Chaudhary Group takes the initiative seriously. The Nabil School for Social Entrepreneurship initiative is promoted by Nabil Bank, one of many business verticals of the Chaudhary Group. Chaudhary highlighted that they want the social entrepreneurship initiative to be a highlight of Nabil Bank and the Chaudhary Group in Nepal, like the Tata Group's cancer research initiative, and Gates Foundation's polio and malaria eradication initiative in Africa. Furthermore, congratulating the NSSE certificate recipients, Nirvana Chaudhary hinted that this course will mean a lot more in the real world and will be incredibly useful for them to tackle social entrepreneurship issues than they have now realized. Course completion certificates were then distributed to 25 recipients, followed by a token of love distribution session to NSSE experts. Mr. Bhupendra Pandey, Deputy CEO at Nabil Bank, also expressed his thoughts about the NSSE CSR Initiative of Nabil Bank. Simran Silpakar, a student in BBA 4th semester at Campion College and one of the participants in the Certification Course, shared how the course inspire her and change her mindset of starting on its own. She said, “In our educational system, we learn theories and we believe what is written in books. However, the real world is different than what we read between the lines. This course let us explore and expose us to real scenarios and cases.” Stating that she discovered a lot about the entrepreneurship journey, she said, “I learned that age is not a limit for exploring and getting ideas for starting a business, and failure in the process does not make you unsuccessful.” Thanking the organizer, she said that this kind of program will provide direction to the youngsters to be independent and contribute to society through entrepreneurship. In the end, Mrs. Anamika Shirvastava, Principal at Campion College also delivered a vote of thanks to Nabil Bank, the NSSE experts, and certificate recipients. NABIL School of Social Entrepreneurship describes social entrepreneurs as people who have practical ideas for change, using social entrepreneurial approaches to tackle complex social problems. These enterprising individuals who have identified an unmet social need, find a business model that can sustain & create lasting social impact.  "
2022-12-12,Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) Announces 30% Dividend Worth Rs 6.85 Arba for FY 2078/79,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-nabil-announces-30-dividend-worth-rs-685-arba-for-fy-207879-2022-12-12,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has proposed a 30% dividend worth Rs. 6.85 Arba for the fiscal year 2078/79. The meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 25 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 22.83 Arba. 18.50% bonus shares worth Rs 4.22 Arba and 11.5% cash dividend (including bonus shares tax purposes) worth Rs 2.61 Arba have been proposed. The dividend will be distributed only after approval by the central bank and endorsement by the company's upcoming AGM. Nabil Bank Limited has proposed a 38% dividend including 33.6 bonus shares for the last fiscal year 2077/78. As of writing, Nabil has an LTP of Rs 846. Dividend History:  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has proposed a 30% dividend worth Rs. 6.85 Arba for the fiscal year 2078/79. The meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 25 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 22.83 Arba. 18.50% bonus shares worth Rs 4.22 Arba and 11.5% cash dividend (including bonus shares tax purposes) worth Rs 2.61 Arba have been proposed. The dividend will be distributed only after approval by the central bank and endorsement by the company's upcoming AGM. Nabil Bank Limited has proposed a 38% dividend including 33.6 bonus shares for the last fiscal year 2077/78. As of writing, Nabil has an LTP of Rs 846. Dividend History:  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has proposed a 30% dividend worth Rs. 6.85 Arba for the fiscal year 2078/79. The meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 25 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 22.83 Arba. 18.50% bonus shares worth Rs 4.22 Arba and 11.5% cash dividend (including bonus shares tax purposes) worth Rs 2.61 Arba have been proposed. The dividend will be distributed only after approval by the central bank and endorsement by the company's upcoming AGM. Nabil Bank Limited has proposed a 38% dividend including 33.6 bonus shares for the last fiscal year 2077/78. As of writing, Nabil has an LTP of Rs 846. Dividend History:  "
2022-12-05,Export –Import Bank of India onboards Nabil Bank under Trade Assistance Program; Bank of India to issuing bank agreement under Trade Assistance Programme,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/export-import-bank-of-india-onboards-nabil-bank-under-trade-assistance-program-bank-of-india-to-issuing-bank-agreement-under-trade-assistance-programme-2022-12-05,"After rigorous risk review, India Exim Bank has approved the facility to Nabil Bank under the Trade Assistance Program. According to the bank, this partnership with Nabil Bank opens up opportunities to facilitate incremental trade between Nepal and India and strengthen the growing economic engagement between Nepal and India. Under the arrangement EXIM bank shall issue a payment guarantee to the Letter of Credit (LC) accepting bank in India in support of the payment obligation of Nabil Bank, thereby enhancing the capacity of commercial banks/financial institutions in India to support cross-border trade transactions involving markets like Nepal where trade lines are constrained. According to the bank, Nabil has strived to play a catalytic role, as a key player, in facilitating Nepal’s international trade and investment relations with partner countries, while contributing to the internationalization endeavors of Nepalese business. Furthermore, the bank believes that Nabil partnership with EXIM Bank under TAP becomes another milestone towards globalization of Nepalese banking sector. India Exim Bank is the principal financial institution for coordinating the working of institutions engaged in financing exports and imports fully owned by the Government of India.  It has over the years, played a catalytic role in facilitating India’s integration with the global economy by promoting, financing and facilitating India’s international trade and investment Nabil Bank with strong foundations, inexorable endeavors, effective strategies and prudent management practices has rightfully established it as the first choice provider of complete financial services to all stakeholders. The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 233 branch offices, 269 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 200 international correspondent banking relationships. After rigorous risk review, India Exim Bank has approved the facility to Nabil Bank under the Trade Assistance Program. According to the bank, this partnership with Nabil Bank opens up opportunities to facilitate incremental trade between Nepal and India and strengthen the growing economic engagement between Nepal and India. Under the arrangement EXIM bank shall issue a payment guarantee to the Letter of Credit (LC) accepting bank in India in support of the payment obligation of Nabil Bank, thereby enhancing the capacity of commercial banks/financial institutions in India to support cross-border trade transactions involving markets like Nepal where trade lines are constrained. According to the bank, Nabil has strived to play a catalytic role, as a key player, in facilitating Nepal’s international trade and investment relations with partner countries, while contributing to the internationalization endeavors of Nepalese business. Furthermore, the bank believes that Nabil partnership with EXIM Bank under TAP becomes another milestone towards globalization of Nepalese banking sector. India Exim Bank is the principal financial institution for coordinating the working of institutions engaged in financing exports and imports fully owned by the Government of India.  It has over the years, played a catalytic role in facilitating India’s integration with the global economy by promoting, financing and facilitating India’s international trade and investment Nabil Bank with strong foundations, inexorable endeavors, effective strategies and prudent management practices has rightfully established it as the first choice provider of complete financial services to all stakeholders. The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 233 branch offices, 269 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 200 international correspondent banking relationships. After rigorous risk review, India Exim Bank has approved the facility to Nabil Bank under the Trade Assistance Program. According to the bank, this partnership with Nabil Bank opens up opportunities to facilitate incremental trade between Nepal and India and strengthen the growing economic engagement between Nepal and India. Under the arrangement EXIM bank shall issue a payment guarantee to the Letter of Credit (LC) accepting bank in India in support of the payment obligation of Nabil Bank, thereby enhancing the capacity of commercial banks/financial institutions in India to support cross-border trade transactions involving markets like Nepal where trade lines are constrained. According to the bank, Nabil has strived to play a catalytic role, as a key player, in facilitating Nepal’s international trade and investment relations with partner countries, while contributing to the internationalization endeavors of Nepalese business. Furthermore, the bank believes that Nabil partnership with EXIM Bank under TAP becomes another milestone towards globalization of Nepalese banking sector. India Exim Bank is the principal financial institution for coordinating the working of institutions engaged in financing exports and imports fully owned by the Government of India.  It has over the years, played a catalytic role in facilitating India’s integration with the global economy by promoting, financing and facilitating India’s international trade and investment Nabil Bank with strong foundations, inexorable endeavors, effective strategies and prudent management practices has rightfully established it as the first choice provider of complete financial services to all stakeholders. The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 233 branch offices, 269 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 200 international correspondent banking relationships. "
2022-12-01,"Promoter Shareholder of Nabil Bank, IFIC Bank to Exit Nabil Bank; Proposed to Sell 1.77 Crores Shares of Promoter Shares",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/promoter-shareholder-of-nabil-bank-ific-bank-to-exit-nabil-bank-proposed-to-sell-177-crores-shares-of-promoter-shares-2022-12-01,"The promoter shareholder of Nabil Bank, International Finance Investment and Commerce Bank Limited (IFIC Bank), Bangladesh, has filed a request to sell 1.77 Crores units of promoter shares. Priority should be given to the bank's promoter shareholders, according to instructions from Nepal Rastra Bank, and the promoter shareholders who are interested in purchasing the promoter shares have been asked to submit the application within 35 days of the notice's publication by gathering the required documents and showing up at the bank's central office, Tindhar, Binamarg, Kathmandu. The bank further stated that the share sale process would proceed in accordance with the applicable law if the existing promoter did not apply within the allotted time period.   The promoter shareholder of Nabil Bank, International Finance Investment and Commerce Bank Limited (IFIC Bank), Bangladesh, has filed a request to sell 1.77 Crores units of promoter shares. Priority should be given to the bank's promoter shareholders, according to instructions from Nepal Rastra Bank, and the promoter shareholders who are interested in purchasing the promoter shares have been asked to submit the application within 35 days of the notice's publication by gathering the required documents and showing up at the bank's central office, Tindhar, Binamarg, Kathmandu. The bank further stated that the share sale process would proceed in accordance with the applicable law if the existing promoter did not apply within the allotted time period.   The promoter shareholder of Nabil Bank, International Finance Investment and Commerce Bank Limited (IFIC Bank), Bangladesh, has filed a request to sell 1.77 Crores units of promoter shares. Priority should be given to the bank's promoter shareholders, according to instructions from Nepal Rastra Bank, and the promoter shareholders who are interested in purchasing the promoter shares have been asked to submit the application within 35 days of the notice's publication by gathering the required documents and showing up at the bank's central office, Tindhar, Binamarg, Kathmandu. The bank further stated that the share sale process would proceed in accordance with the applicable law if the existing promoter did not apply within the allotted time period.   "
2022-11-30,Nabil Bank inks MoU with Doko Recyclers; to help in recycle and reuse of paper based waste produced during banking operation,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inks-mou-with-doko-recyclers-to-help-in-recycle-and-reuse-of-paper-based-waste-produced-during-banking-operation-2022-11-30,"Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Doko Recyclers so as to manage the paper based waste products produced during the daily operation of the bank. The MoU was signed between CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana and founder of Doko Mr. Runit Sariya amid a program. Following the MoU, Doko will now visit bank’s branches, collect the paper based waste, shred them and get them recycled for reuse and will also train the bank staff members  for their behavioral change for proper solid waste management thereby making Nabil Bank’s commitment to sustainable banking a doable job, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Doko Recyclers so as to manage the paper based waste products produced during the daily operation of the bank. The MoU was signed between CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana and founder of Doko Mr. Runit Sariya amid a program. Following the MoU, Doko will now visit bank’s branches, collect the paper based waste, shred them and get them recycled for reuse and will also train the bank staff members  for their behavioral change for proper solid waste management thereby making Nabil Bank’s commitment to sustainable banking a doable job, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Doko Recyclers so as to manage the paper based waste products produced during the daily operation of the bank. The MoU was signed between CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana and founder of Doko Mr. Runit Sariya amid a program. Following the MoU, Doko will now visit bank’s branches, collect the paper based waste, shred them and get them recycled for reuse and will also train the bank staff members  for their behavioral change for proper solid waste management thereby making Nabil Bank’s commitment to sustainable banking a doable job, as per the media statement. "
2022-11-29,Laxmi Intercontinental and Nabil Bank sign MOU to provide credit facilities for Hyundai EV and ICE vehicles; NOW get upto 80% line of credit for 7 years at 12.99% interest,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/laxmi-intercontinental-and-nabil-bank-sign-mou-to-provide-credit-facilities-for-hyundai-ev-and-ice-vehicles-now-get-upto-80-line-of-credit-for-7-years-at-1299-interest-2022-11-29,"Laxmi Intercontinental, the sole authorized distributor of Hyundai vehicles in Nepal, has signed an agreement with Nabil Bank Limited to expand financing options for its Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Internal Combustion Engines (ICEs) vehicles. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Sr.DCEO of Nabil Bank Limited and Indra Prasad Sapkota, General Manager of Laxmi Intercontinental signed the memorandum of understanding.  As a result, customers can now finance their Hyundai vehicle, EV, or ICE through Nabil Bank at a 12.99% interest rate. Once the bank has verified all of the required documents, the loan will be approved in 3 working days with a 7-year term. The loan financing percentage for EVs is 80% in the case of individuals and 70% for firms. Likewise, for ICE vehicles up to 50% financing in the case of individuals and 70% for firms. The contract signed between the two parties will enable a large number of car enthusiasts to easily obtain the vehicle of their choice from Hyundai. Customers can take advantage of this offer by visiting any Nabil Bank branch or any of Hyundai's 17 showrooms across the country. Customers can easily obtain their preferred vehicle with this agreement. The company aims to make vehicle ownership simpler for everyone with the help of this MOU with one of Nepal's largest banks.   Laxmi Intercontinental, the sole authorized distributor of Hyundai vehicles in Nepal, has signed an agreement with Nabil Bank Limited to expand financing options for its Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Internal Combustion Engines (ICEs) vehicles. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Sr.DCEO of Nabil Bank Limited and Indra Prasad Sapkota, General Manager of Laxmi Intercontinental signed the memorandum of understanding.  As a result, customers can now finance their Hyundai vehicle, EV, or ICE through Nabil Bank at a 12.99% interest rate. Once the bank has verified all of the required documents, the loan will be approved in 3 working days with a 7-year term. The loan financing percentage for EVs is 80% in the case of individuals and 70% for firms. Likewise, for ICE vehicles up to 50% financing in the case of individuals and 70% for firms. The contract signed between the two parties will enable a large number of car enthusiasts to easily obtain the vehicle of their choice from Hyundai. Customers can take advantage of this offer by visiting any Nabil Bank branch or any of Hyundai's 17 showrooms across the country. Customers can easily obtain their preferred vehicle with this agreement. The company aims to make vehicle ownership simpler for everyone with the help of this MOU with one of Nepal's largest banks.   Laxmi Intercontinental, the sole authorized distributor of Hyundai vehicles in Nepal, has signed an agreement with Nabil Bank Limited to expand financing options for its Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Internal Combustion Engines (ICEs) vehicles. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Sr.DCEO of Nabil Bank Limited and Indra Prasad Sapkota, General Manager of Laxmi Intercontinental signed the memorandum of understanding.  As a result, customers can now finance their Hyundai vehicle, EV, or ICE through Nabil Bank at a 12.99% interest rate. Once the bank has verified all of the required documents, the loan will be approved in 3 working days with a 7-year term. The loan financing percentage for EVs is 80% in the case of individuals and 70% for firms. Likewise, for ICE vehicles up to 50% financing in the case of individuals and 70% for firms. The contract signed between the two parties will enable a large number of car enthusiasts to easily obtain the vehicle of their choice from Hyundai. Customers can take advantage of this offer by visiting any Nabil Bank branch or any of Hyundai's 17 showrooms across the country. Customers can easily obtain their preferred vehicle with this agreement. The company aims to make vehicle ownership simpler for everyone with the help of this MOU with one of Nepal's largest banks.   "
2022-11-28,"Due to Higher Spread Rates, NIC Asia Bank is Most Affected by the First Quarter Monetary Policy; What is the Status of Other BFI's?",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/due-to-higher-spread-rates-nic-asia-bank-is-most-affected-by-the-first-quarter-monetary-policy-what-is-the-status-of-other-bfis-2022-11-28,"The fiscal year 2079/80 first quarterly review of monetary policy has been released by Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). Through this monetary policy, the central bank has implemented a number of changes, particularly in the banking sector where the spread rate of banks and financial institutions has fallen. The Central Bank decreased the spread rate by 0.4 percentage points in the first quarter while assessing the monetary policy for the fiscal year 2079/2080.  The spread rate is the difference between the interest rates on deposits and loans. Banks have to consider the weighted average of the interest rates on deposits and loans while calculating the spread rate. Interest rate spread is used not only to cover the cost of operating expenses and required reserves but also reflects the prevalence of market power and compensates for the quality of loans. The companies having higher spread rates can lower their spread rates by reducing the loan interest rate and the premium rate that banks and other financial institutions charge when establishing the loan interest rate.  Commercial Banks NIC Asia Bank has the highest spread rate of 4.39%, whereas Nepal Bank Limited has the lowest spread rate of 3.66%. Similarly, 11 commercial banks—NBL, CCBL, NMB, CZBIL, NCCB, SCB, NIB, ADBL, SANIMA, SBL, and PRVU—maintained spread rates below 4%. Other banks such as SBI, NABIL, MEGA, LBL, SRBL, KBL, HBL, GBIME, EBL, MBL, RBB, BOKL, PCBL, CBL, and NICA, have spread rates that are more than 4%. These banks are now impacted by the higher spread rates, in accordance with the first monetary policy, and are required to keep the spread rates below 4% starting in the forthcoming quarters.  Development Banks As per the first quarterly review of monetary policy, the interest rate differential between development banks has also decreased from 5 percent to 4.6 percent. In terms of Development Banks, Muktinath Bikas Bank (MNBBL) has the highest spread rate of 4.99% whereas Green Development Bank Limited (GRDBL) has the lower spread rate of 4.04%. Among the 15 Development banks in Nepal, 9 Development Banks have maintained the interest spread rates below 4.6%.   Finance Companies Similar to the Development banks, the interest rate differential between finance companies has also decreased from 5 percent to 4.6 percent. Here, 12 financial institutions have been affected by the monetary policy review and are required to lower their spread rates from upcoming quarters. On the other hand, RLFL, JFL, and BFC has spread rates below 4.6%.   The fiscal year 2079/80 first quarterly review of monetary policy has been released by Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). Through this monetary policy, the central bank has implemented a number of changes, particularly in the banking sector where the spread rate of banks and financial institutions has fallen. The Central Bank decreased the spread rate by 0.4 percentage points in the first quarter while assessing the monetary policy for the fiscal year 2079/2080.  The spread rate is the difference between the interest rates on deposits and loans. Banks have to consider the weighted average of the interest rates on deposits and loans while calculating the spread rate. Interest rate spread is used not only to cover the cost of operating expenses and required reserves but also reflects the prevalence of market power and compensates for the quality of loans. The companies having higher spread rates can lower their spread rates by reducing the loan interest rate and the premium rate that banks and other financial institutions charge when establishing the loan interest rate.  Commercial Banks NIC Asia Bank has the highest spread rate of 4.39%, whereas Nepal Bank Limited has the lowest spread rate of 3.66%. Similarly, 11 commercial banks—NBL, CCBL, NMB, CZBIL, NCCB, SCB, NIB, ADBL, SANIMA, SBL, and PRVU—maintained spread rates below 4%. Other banks such as SBI, NABIL, MEGA, LBL, SRBL, KBL, HBL, GBIME, EBL, MBL, RBB, BOKL, PCBL, CBL, and NICA, have spread rates that are more than 4%. These banks are now impacted by the higher spread rates, in accordance with the first monetary policy, and are required to keep the spread rates below 4% starting in the forthcoming quarters.  Development Banks As per the first quarterly review of monetary policy, the interest rate differential between development banks has also decreased from 5 percent to 4.6 percent. In terms of Development Banks, Muktinath Bikas Bank (MNBBL) has the highest spread rate of 4.99% whereas Green Development Bank Limited (GRDBL) has the lower spread rate of 4.04%. Among the 15 Development banks in Nepal, 9 Development Banks have maintained the interest spread rates below 4.6%.   Finance Companies Similar to the Development banks, the interest rate differential between finance companies has also decreased from 5 percent to 4.6 percent. Here, 12 financial institutions have been affected by the monetary policy review and are required to lower their spread rates from upcoming quarters. On the other hand, RLFL, JFL, and BFC has spread rates below 4.6%.   The fiscal year 2079/80 first quarterly review of monetary policy has been released by Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). Through this monetary policy, the central bank has implemented a number of changes, particularly in the banking sector where the spread rate of banks and financial institutions has fallen. The Central Bank decreased the spread rate by 0.4 percentage points in the first quarter while assessing the monetary policy for the fiscal year 2079/2080.  The spread rate is the difference between the interest rates on deposits and loans. Banks have to consider the weighted average of the interest rates on deposits and loans while calculating the spread rate. Interest rate spread is used not only to cover the cost of operating expenses and required reserves but also reflects the prevalence of market power and compensates for the quality of loans. The companies having higher spread rates can lower their spread rates by reducing the loan interest rate and the premium rate that banks and other financial institutions charge when establishing the loan interest rate.  Commercial Banks NIC Asia Bank has the highest spread rate of 4.39%, whereas Nepal Bank Limited has the lowest spread rate of 3.66%. Similarly, 11 commercial banks—NBL, CCBL, NMB, CZBIL, NCCB, SCB, NIB, ADBL, SANIMA, SBL, and PRVU—maintained spread rates below 4%. Other banks such as SBI, NABIL, MEGA, LBL, SRBL, KBL, HBL, GBIME, EBL, MBL, RBB, BOKL, PCBL, CBL, and NICA, have spread rates that are more than 4%. These banks are now impacted by the higher spread rates, in accordance with the first monetary policy, and are required to keep the spread rates below 4% starting in the forthcoming quarters.  Development Banks As per the first quarterly review of monetary policy, the interest rate differential between development banks has also decreased from 5 percent to 4.6 percent. In terms of Development Banks, Muktinath Bikas Bank (MNBBL) has the highest spread rate of 4.99% whereas Green Development Bank Limited (GRDBL) has the lower spread rate of 4.04%. Among the 15 Development banks in Nepal, 9 Development Banks have maintained the interest spread rates below 4.6%.   Finance Companies Similar to the Development banks, the interest rate differential between finance companies has also decreased from 5 percent to 4.6 percent. Here, 12 financial institutions have been affected by the monetary policy review and are required to lower their spread rates from upcoming quarters. On the other hand, RLFL, JFL, and BFC has spread rates below 4.6%.   "
2022-11-27,"1,00,000 Promoter Shares of Nabil Bank in Auction from Today",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/100000-promoter-shares-of-nabil-bank-in-auction-from-today-2022-11-27,"The existing promoter of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) are auctioning 1,00,000 units shares to promoter shareholders from today i.e 11th Mangsir, 2079 1,00,000 units promoter shares of NABIL will be auctioned. Only existing promoters are eligible to bid for the auction within 35 days from the date of publication of this notice, i.e. 11th Mangsir. The shareholders should submit their bids at the central office of the bank located at Tindhara, Binamarg, Kathmandu. If no bids are received from the existing founder shareholders within the mentioned date, then the shares will be later auctioned to the general public. Auction notice The existing promoter of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) are auctioning 1,00,000 units shares to promoter shareholders from today i.e 11th Mangsir, 2079 1,00,000 units promoter shares of NABIL will be auctioned. Only existing promoters are eligible to bid for the auction within 35 days from the date of publication of this notice, i.e. 11th Mangsir. The shareholders should submit their bids at the central office of the bank located at Tindhara, Binamarg, Kathmandu. If no bids are received from the existing founder shareholders within the mentioned date, then the shares will be later auctioned to the general public. Auction notice The existing promoter of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) are auctioning 1,00,000 units shares to promoter shareholders from today i.e 11th Mangsir, 2079 1,00,000 units promoter shares of NABIL will be auctioned. Only existing promoters are eligible to bid for the auction within 35 days from the date of publication of this notice, i.e. 11th Mangsir. The shareholders should submit their bids at the central office of the bank located at Tindhara, Binamarg, Kathmandu. If no bids are received from the existing founder shareholders within the mentioned date, then the shares will be later auctioned to the general public. Auction notice "
2022-11-24,Nabil Bank receives special acknowledgement from IRD in National Tax Day; becomes highest tax payer from banking sector,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-receives-special-acknowledgement-from-ird-in-national-tax-day-becomes-highest-tax-payer-from-banking-sector-2022-11-24,"Nabil Bank Has received a special appreciation from Inland Revenue Department as the biggest taxpayer in the nation in the fiscal year 2077-78 from the field of banks and financial institutions. CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana received the felicitation on behalf of his bank that had paid Rs 2.79 Arba tax during the review period The first private sector bank of the nation has so far disbursed a cash dividend of Rs 14.45 Arba and bonus shares worth Rs 18.08 Arba to its shareholders, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank Has received a special appreciation from Inland Revenue Department as the biggest taxpayer in the nation in the fiscal year 2077-78 from the field of banks and financial institutions. CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana received the felicitation on behalf of his bank that had paid Rs 2.79 Arba tax during the review period The first private sector bank of the nation has so far disbursed a cash dividend of Rs 14.45 Arba and bonus shares worth Rs 18.08 Arba to its shareholders, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank Has received a special appreciation from Inland Revenue Department as the biggest taxpayer in the nation in the fiscal year 2077-78 from the field of banks and financial institutions. CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana received the felicitation on behalf of his bank that had paid Rs 2.79 Arba tax during the review period The first private sector bank of the nation has so far disbursed a cash dividend of Rs 14.45 Arba and bonus shares worth Rs 18.08 Arba to its shareholders, as per the media statement. "
2022-11-15,Interest Rates of Commercial banks to Remain Unchanged for the Month of Mangsir,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/interest-rates-of-commercial-banks-to-remain-unchanged-for-the-month-of-mangsir-2022-11-15,"Commercial banks will maintain the same deposit interest rate during the month of Mangsir. The Bankers' Association meeting on Tuesday morning decided that there is no need to raise or lower interest rates because the economic indicators are stable, according to Sunil KC, vice president of the Bankers' Association. Prior to Bhadra, the interest rate on individual term deposits was 11.03 percent, on institutional term deposits it was 9.03 percent, and on savings, it ranged from a minimum of 6.03 to a maximum of 8.03 to 9.03 percent. Banks in Ashoj maintained interest rates on term deposits at 12.133 percent for individuals, 10.133 percent for institutions, and 13.133 percent for remittances. Some banks have offered remittance interest rates as high as 15%. The finance minister's committee, which was established to lower interest rates, has advocated letting the market set interest rates. Despite the committee's lack of recommendations for an urgent interest rate reduction, bankers have decided to maintain the current rate. As per reports, the banks have not discussed reducing the interest rate as the liquidity has not yet reached a comfortable level with the banks. Commercial banks will maintain the same deposit interest rate during the month of Mangsir. The Bankers' Association meeting on Tuesday morning decided that there is no need to raise or lower interest rates because the economic indicators are stable, according to Sunil KC, vice president of the Bankers' Association. Prior to Bhadra, the interest rate on individual term deposits was 11.03 percent, on institutional term deposits it was 9.03 percent, and on savings, it ranged from a minimum of 6.03 to a maximum of 8.03 to 9.03 percent. Banks in Ashoj maintained interest rates on term deposits at 12.133 percent for individuals, 10.133 percent for institutions, and 13.133 percent for remittances. Some banks have offered remittance interest rates as high as 15%. The finance minister's committee, which was established to lower interest rates, has advocated letting the market set interest rates. Despite the committee's lack of recommendations for an urgent interest rate reduction, bankers have decided to maintain the current rate. As per reports, the banks have not discussed reducing the interest rate as the liquidity has not yet reached a comfortable level with the banks. Commercial banks will maintain the same deposit interest rate during the month of Mangsir. The Bankers' Association meeting on Tuesday morning decided that there is no need to raise or lower interest rates because the economic indicators are stable, according to Sunil KC, vice president of the Bankers' Association. Prior to Bhadra, the interest rate on individual term deposits was 11.03 percent, on institutional term deposits it was 9.03 percent, and on savings, it ranged from a minimum of 6.03 to a maximum of 8.03 to 9.03 percent. Banks in Ashoj maintained interest rates on term deposits at 12.133 percent for individuals, 10.133 percent for institutions, and 13.133 percent for remittances. Some banks have offered remittance interest rates as high as 15%. The finance minister's committee, which was established to lower interest rates, has advocated letting the market set interest rates. Despite the committee's lack of recommendations for an urgent interest rate reduction, bankers have decided to maintain the current rate. As per reports, the banks have not discussed reducing the interest rate as the liquidity has not yet reached a comfortable level with the banks. "
2022-10-31,Profitability Figures of Commercial Banks Painted a Greener Picture in First Quarter; A Summarized Snapshot of the  Important Fundamentals of all 26 Banks Individually,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/profitability-figures-of-commercial-banks-painted-a-greener-picture-in-first-quarter-a-summarized-snapshot-of-the-important-fundamentals-of-all-26-banks-individually-2022-10-31,"All 26 commercial banks have unveiled their first quarter report of the current fiscal year 2079/80. Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the Lower Credit Expansion, Liquidity Shortage, Higher Treasury Bill rates, and inflation rates, Banks have reported slight improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter.  Keeping all the speculation aside, in this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks as of Q1 of Fiscal year 2079/80 and doing a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. Note: Out of the 26 commercial banks in Nepal, Himalayan Bank signed MoU to acquire Civil Bank at a swap ratio of 100:81, Similarly Prabhu Bank is in the process to acquire Century Commercial Bank at a swap ratio of 1:1. In the same vein, Nepal Investment Bank and Mega Bank signed merger agreement at a Swap Ratio -100:90, Global IME and Bank of Kathmandu signed merged deal with each other at a swap ratio of 1:1, Also, Kumari Bank and NCC Bank signed merger deal at 1:1 ratio. Upon the joint transaction of above mentioned all commercial banks, the total number of A class banks would reduce to 22 from present 26 in Nepal. And the listed number of commercial banks would be 21. (RBBL is not listed on NEPSE) Net profit: The Commercial Banks' total net profit rises by 5.94% in FY 2079/80 from Rs 17.71 Arba in the last fiscal year to Rs 18.76 Arba in this fiscal year. As per the net profit of the first quarter of FY 2079/80, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs. 1.76 Arba with a growth of 48.79% as compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year. Similarly, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) also reported net profit of Rs. 1.57 Arba with a growth of 41.30%, hence it stands in the second position to accumulate higher profits for the first quarter. In the third position, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has a net profit of Rs 1.25 Arba. Likewise, 12 commercial banks have reported decline in net profit as compared to the corresponding quarter of the last fiscal year. Out of which, Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL) reported highest decline in net profit by 61.50%, to stand at Rs. 17 Crores. In the same vein, Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) net profit rose by 85.07% in the first quarter of F.Y 2079/80.  The industry average of net profit of the 26 commercial banks stands at Rs 72 Crores, the same for the previous year first quarter was Rs.68 Crores. Profit for the period:  Distributable Profit: As per the distributable profit of the first quarter of 2079/80, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 85 Crores. Similarly, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the second-highest distributable profit of Rs 49 Crores in the same quarter. In the third position, Sanima Bank Limited(SANIMA) has a distributable profit of Rs.53 Crores, with Rs.4.68 distributable profit per share for the period. Out of the 26 commercial banks, 12 banks have reported negative distributable profit for the first quarter. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the negative distributable profit of Rs. 82 Crores with the profit per share standing at Rs. -6.18.   *Distributable Profit includes ongoing fiscal year earnings only. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 23.80 Arba capital and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with Rs. 22.83 Arba paid-up capital.   *ADBL Capital includes Rs 5.43 Arba irredeemable non-cumulative preference shares. Reserve and surplus: With an industry average of Rs 10.63 Arba, 8 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 10.03 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.76 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 30.43 Arba, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained the second position with Rs 21.69 Arba reserve and surplus fund and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.79 Arba  *Reserve and Surplus amounts include the amount of Share Premium, Retained Earnings, and Reserve. Deposits from Customers: On an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.72 Kharba as a deposit. Only 10 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the first quarter of FY 2079/80, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 3.34 Kharba, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 3.04 Kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.79 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Nepal Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 92.60 Arba.  Loans and advances to Customers: The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 3.05 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.61 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan portfolio of Rs 2.59 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 79.22 Arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.55 Kharba. 9 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.53 Kharba.  Net Interest Income: Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with an income of Rs 3.68 Arba followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 3.41 Arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 3.20 Arba.  Provisions for the period (Impairment/Reversal): Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 9.47 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 99 Crores followed by Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) with a total of Rs. 89 crores. In the same vein, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the lowest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs. 13 Crores. 12 Commercial banks have reported above average i.e more than Rs. 36 crores impairment charge for a loan and other losses for this quarter. * - Reversal and + Provision  Major indicators: Earnings per share: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 60.77 per share. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 36.43 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 35.77 per share. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 4.23 per share.   The average EPS of 26 commercial banks stands at Rs 21.35. Only 9 commercial banks provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 258.65 which belongs to Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL). Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the second position with Rs 250.55. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q1 of FY 2079/80 i.e. Rs 247.32. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 130.52 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 179.12 per share. 9 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. P/E Ratio: Kumari Bank Limited (KBL)  has the least PE ratio of 6.83 times. It is followed by Prabhu Bank Limited (PRVU) with a PE ratio of 9.33 times. 18 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 16.99 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios but rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  Non-Performing Loan: In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported the lowest NPL of 0.33% in terms of asset quality. EBL is followed by Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) with an NPL of 0.36%.  Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL) has reported the highest NPL of 2.94%, followed by  Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) with an NPL of 2.89%.   Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR): In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.03%. This is followed by Civil Bank Nepal Limited (CBL) with a CAR of 16%.  Others: Cost of Funds: The term cost of funds refers to how much banks and financial institutions spend in order to acquire money to lend to their customers. The lower the cost of funds, the better because it ultimately reduces the cost of banks. As per reports, Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the highest Cost of Funds of 9.25%, whereas Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) the lowest cost of funds of 6.51%. CD Ratio: The CD ratio refers to the credit-deposit ratio in banking parlance. It tells how much of the money banks have raised in the form of deposits has been deployed as loans. Likewise, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has reported highest CD ratio of 90.59%, whereas Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest CD ratio of 83.98%. Base Rate and Interest Spread: Base rate is defined as the minimum interest rate set by the NRB below which Commercial banks are not permitted to lend to their customers. Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) reports highest base rate of 11.14%, and Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has lowest base rate of 8.85%. Similarly, the net interest rate spread is the difference between the interest rate a bank pays to depositors and the interest rate it receives from loans to consumers. Here, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the highest interest spread of 4.39%, whereas Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the lowest interest spread of 3.66% for the first quarter of FY 2079/80. Cost of Funds, CD Ratio, Base Rates and Interest Spread:   Finally, the table below shows provides a full picture of major indicators of 26 commercial banks as of the first quarter of FY 2079-2080.    All 26 commercial banks have unveiled their first quarter report of the current fiscal year 2079/80. Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the Lower Credit Expansion, Liquidity Shortage, Higher Treasury Bill rates, and inflation rates, Banks have reported slight improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter.  Keeping all the speculation aside, in this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks as of Q1 of Fiscal year 2079/80 and doing a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. Note: Out of the 26 commercial banks in Nepal, Himalayan Bank signed MoU to acquire Civil Bank at a swap ratio of 100:81, Similarly Prabhu Bank is in the process to acquire Century Commercial Bank at a swap ratio of 1:1. In the same vein, Nepal Investment Bank and Mega Bank signed merger agreement at a Swap Ratio -100:90, Global IME and Bank of Kathmandu signed merged deal with each other at a swap ratio of 1:1, Also, Kumari Bank and NCC Bank signed merger deal at 1:1 ratio. Upon the joint transaction of above mentioned all commercial banks, the total number of A class banks would reduce to 22 from present 26 in Nepal. And the listed number of commercial banks would be 21. (RBBL is not listed on NEPSE) Net profit: The Commercial Banks' total net profit rises by 5.94% in FY 2079/80 from Rs 17.71 Arba in the last fiscal year to Rs 18.76 Arba in this fiscal year. As per the net profit of the first quarter of FY 2079/80, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs. 1.76 Arba with a growth of 48.79% as compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year. Similarly, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) also reported net profit of Rs. 1.57 Arba with a growth of 41.30%, hence it stands in the second position to accumulate higher profits for the first quarter. In the third position, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has a net profit of Rs 1.25 Arba. Likewise, 12 commercial banks have reported decline in net profit as compared to the corresponding quarter of the last fiscal year. Out of which, Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL) reported highest decline in net profit by 61.50%, to stand at Rs. 17 Crores. In the same vein, Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) net profit rose by 85.07% in the first quarter of F.Y 2079/80.  The industry average of net profit of the 26 commercial banks stands at Rs 72 Crores, the same for the previous year first quarter was Rs.68 Crores. Profit for the period:  Distributable Profit: As per the distributable profit of the first quarter of 2079/80, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 85 Crores. Similarly, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the second-highest distributable profit of Rs 49 Crores in the same quarter. In the third position, Sanima Bank Limited(SANIMA) has a distributable profit of Rs.53 Crores, with Rs.4.68 distributable profit per share for the period. Out of the 26 commercial banks, 12 banks have reported negative distributable profit for the first quarter. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the negative distributable profit of Rs. 82 Crores with the profit per share standing at Rs. -6.18.   *Distributable Profit includes ongoing fiscal year earnings only. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 23.80 Arba capital and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with Rs. 22.83 Arba paid-up capital.   *ADBL Capital includes Rs 5.43 Arba irredeemable non-cumulative preference shares. Reserve and surplus: With an industry average of Rs 10.63 Arba, 8 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 10.03 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.76 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 30.43 Arba, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained the second position with Rs 21.69 Arba reserve and surplus fund and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.79 Arba  *Reserve and Surplus amounts include the amount of Share Premium, Retained Earnings, and Reserve. Deposits from Customers: On an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.72 Kharba as a deposit. Only 10 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the first quarter of FY 2079/80, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 3.34 Kharba, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 3.04 Kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.79 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Nepal Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 92.60 Arba.  Loans and advances to Customers: The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 3.05 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.61 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan portfolio of Rs 2.59 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 79.22 Arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.55 Kharba. 9 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.53 Kharba.  Net Interest Income: Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with an income of Rs 3.68 Arba followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 3.41 Arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 3.20 Arba.  Provisions for the period (Impairment/Reversal): Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 9.47 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 99 Crores followed by Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) with a total of Rs. 89 crores. In the same vein, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the lowest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs. 13 Crores. 12 Commercial banks have reported above average i.e more than Rs. 36 crores impairment charge for a loan and other losses for this quarter. * - Reversal and + Provision  Major indicators: Earnings per share: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 60.77 per share. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 36.43 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 35.77 per share. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 4.23 per share.   The average EPS of 26 commercial banks stands at Rs 21.35. Only 9 commercial banks provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 258.65 which belongs to Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL). Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the second position with Rs 250.55. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q1 of FY 2079/80 i.e. Rs 247.32. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 130.52 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 179.12 per share. 9 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. P/E Ratio: Kumari Bank Limited (KBL)  has the least PE ratio of 6.83 times. It is followed by Prabhu Bank Limited (PRVU) with a PE ratio of 9.33 times. 18 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 16.99 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios but rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  Non-Performing Loan: In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported the lowest NPL of 0.33% in terms of asset quality. EBL is followed by Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) with an NPL of 0.36%.  Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL) has reported the highest NPL of 2.94%, followed by  Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) with an NPL of 2.89%.   Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR): In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.03%. This is followed by Civil Bank Nepal Limited (CBL) with a CAR of 16%.  Others: Cost of Funds: The term cost of funds refers to how much banks and financial institutions spend in order to acquire money to lend to their customers. The lower the cost of funds, the better because it ultimately reduces the cost of banks. As per reports, Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the highest Cost of Funds of 9.25%, whereas Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) the lowest cost of funds of 6.51%. CD Ratio: The CD ratio refers to the credit-deposit ratio in banking parlance. It tells how much of the money banks have raised in the form of deposits has been deployed as loans. Likewise, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has reported highest CD ratio of 90.59%, whereas Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest CD ratio of 83.98%. Base Rate and Interest Spread: Base rate is defined as the minimum interest rate set by the NRB below which Commercial banks are not permitted to lend to their customers. Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) reports highest base rate of 11.14%, and Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has lowest base rate of 8.85%. Similarly, the net interest rate spread is the difference between the interest rate a bank pays to depositors and the interest rate it receives from loans to consumers. Here, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the highest interest spread of 4.39%, whereas Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the lowest interest spread of 3.66% for the first quarter of FY 2079/80. Cost of Funds, CD Ratio, Base Rates and Interest Spread:   Finally, the table below shows provides a full picture of major indicators of 26 commercial banks as of the first quarter of FY 2079-2080.    All 26 commercial banks have unveiled their first quarter report of the current fiscal year 2079/80. Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the Lower Credit Expansion, Liquidity Shortage, Higher Treasury Bill rates, and inflation rates, Banks have reported slight improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter.  Keeping all the speculation aside, in this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks as of Q1 of Fiscal year 2079/80 and doing a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. Note: Out of the 26 commercial banks in Nepal, Himalayan Bank signed MoU to acquire Civil Bank at a swap ratio of 100:81, Similarly Prabhu Bank is in the process to acquire Century Commercial Bank at a swap ratio of 1:1. In the same vein, Nepal Investment Bank and Mega Bank signed merger agreement at a Swap Ratio -100:90, Global IME and Bank of Kathmandu signed merged deal with each other at a swap ratio of 1:1, Also, Kumari Bank and NCC Bank signed merger deal at 1:1 ratio. Upon the joint transaction of above mentioned all commercial banks, the total number of A class banks would reduce to 22 from present 26 in Nepal. And the listed number of commercial banks would be 21. (RBBL is not listed on NEPSE) Net profit: The Commercial Banks' total net profit rises by 5.94% in FY 2079/80 from Rs 17.71 Arba in the last fiscal year to Rs 18.76 Arba in this fiscal year. As per the net profit of the first quarter of FY 2079/80, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs. 1.76 Arba with a growth of 48.79% as compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year. Similarly, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) also reported net profit of Rs. 1.57 Arba with a growth of 41.30%, hence it stands in the second position to accumulate higher profits for the first quarter. In the third position, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has a net profit of Rs 1.25 Arba. Likewise, 12 commercial banks have reported decline in net profit as compared to the corresponding quarter of the last fiscal year. Out of which, Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL) reported highest decline in net profit by 61.50%, to stand at Rs. 17 Crores. In the same vein, Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) net profit rose by 85.07% in the first quarter of F.Y 2079/80.  The industry average of net profit of the 26 commercial banks stands at Rs 72 Crores, the same for the previous year first quarter was Rs.68 Crores. Profit for the period:  Distributable Profit: As per the distributable profit of the first quarter of 2079/80, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 85 Crores. Similarly, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the second-highest distributable profit of Rs 49 Crores in the same quarter. In the third position, Sanima Bank Limited(SANIMA) has a distributable profit of Rs.53 Crores, with Rs.4.68 distributable profit per share for the period. Out of the 26 commercial banks, 12 banks have reported negative distributable profit for the first quarter. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the negative distributable profit of Rs. 82 Crores with the profit per share standing at Rs. -6.18.   *Distributable Profit includes ongoing fiscal year earnings only. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 23.80 Arba capital and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with Rs. 22.83 Arba paid-up capital.   *ADBL Capital includes Rs 5.43 Arba irredeemable non-cumulative preference shares. Reserve and surplus: With an industry average of Rs 10.63 Arba, 8 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 10.03 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.76 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 30.43 Arba, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained the second position with Rs 21.69 Arba reserve and surplus fund and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.79 Arba  *Reserve and Surplus amounts include the amount of Share Premium, Retained Earnings, and Reserve. Deposits from Customers: On an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.72 Kharba as a deposit. Only 10 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the first quarter of FY 2079/80, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 3.34 Kharba, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 3.04 Kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.79 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Nepal Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 92.60 Arba.  Loans and advances to Customers: The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 3.05 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.61 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan portfolio of Rs 2.59 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 79.22 Arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.55 Kharba. 9 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.53 Kharba.  Net Interest Income: Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with an income of Rs 3.68 Arba followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 3.41 Arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 3.20 Arba.  Provisions for the period (Impairment/Reversal): Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 9.47 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 99 Crores followed by Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) with a total of Rs. 89 crores. In the same vein, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the lowest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs. 13 Crores. 12 Commercial banks have reported above average i.e more than Rs. 36 crores impairment charge for a loan and other losses for this quarter. * - Reversal and + Provision  Major indicators: Earnings per share: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 60.77 per share. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 36.43 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 35.77 per share. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 4.23 per share.   The average EPS of 26 commercial banks stands at Rs 21.35. Only 9 commercial banks provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 258.65 which belongs to Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL). Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the second position with Rs 250.55. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q1 of FY 2079/80 i.e. Rs 247.32. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 130.52 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 179.12 per share. 9 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. P/E Ratio: Kumari Bank Limited (KBL)  has the least PE ratio of 6.83 times. It is followed by Prabhu Bank Limited (PRVU) with a PE ratio of 9.33 times. 18 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 16.99 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios but rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  Non-Performing Loan: In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported the lowest NPL of 0.33% in terms of asset quality. EBL is followed by Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) with an NPL of 0.36%.  Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL) has reported the highest NPL of 2.94%, followed by  Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) with an NPL of 2.89%.   Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR): In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.03%. This is followed by Civil Bank Nepal Limited (CBL) with a CAR of 16%.  Others: Cost of Funds: The term cost of funds refers to how much banks and financial institutions spend in order to acquire money to lend to their customers. The lower the cost of funds, the better because it ultimately reduces the cost of banks. As per reports, Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the highest Cost of Funds of 9.25%, whereas Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) the lowest cost of funds of 6.51%. CD Ratio: The CD ratio refers to the credit-deposit ratio in banking parlance. It tells how much of the money banks have raised in the form of deposits has been deployed as loans. Likewise, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has reported highest CD ratio of 90.59%, whereas Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest CD ratio of 83.98%. Base Rate and Interest Spread: Base rate is defined as the minimum interest rate set by the NRB below which Commercial banks are not permitted to lend to their customers. Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) reports highest base rate of 11.14%, and Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has lowest base rate of 8.85%. Similarly, the net interest rate spread is the difference between the interest rate a bank pays to depositors and the interest rate it receives from loans to consumers. Here, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the highest interest spread of 4.39%, whereas Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the lowest interest spread of 3.66% for the first quarter of FY 2079/80. Cost of Funds, CD Ratio, Base Rates and Interest Spread:   Finally, the table below shows provides a full picture of major indicators of 26 commercial banks as of the first quarter of FY 2079-2080.    "
2022-10-21,Avail loan up to Rs. 2 lakhs without collateral with Nabil Foneloan,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/avail-loan-up-to-rs-2-lakhs-without-collateral-with-nabil-foneloan-2022-10-21,"Nabil Bank, the first bank to provide Foneloan, has expanded the limit and eligibility of the digital financing product. Previously offering a loan limit of Rs. 100,000, now the limit for Nabil Foneloan has increased to Rs. 200,000. Additionally, Nabil Bank’s eligibility pool has also been expanded. Nabil Bank customers holding regular saving accounts and even QR merchants will be eligible for Foneloan, whereas only salary account holders could avail the service before.  Nabil Bank has also upgraded their Foneloan offerings, allowing eligible customers to see the Foneloan icon on the Home Screen of their Nabil Smart Bank App. Furthermore, customers can also get ‘Buy Now Pay Later’ and EMI option for Foneloan. Customers can scan any Fonepay merchant QR codes during purchases and choose “Buy Now Pay Later” option during checkout to pay for their purchase in monthly installments. Customers looking to clear their Foneloan dues early also have the option of prepaying their Foneloan directly from their apps. Nabil Bank takes no prepayment charge on prepayment, and allows instant clearance of loans provided that the customers have adequate funds in their accounts. “Banking in Nepal is still in process of evolution but is currently focused on collateral based lending primarily due to legal and regulatory regime and in view of ease in NPA management.”, said Mr. Niraj Basnet Danil, Head SME and Microfinance at Nabil Bank. “Though our risk-taking appetite is increasing in recent days, we need to shift from collateral-based loans to behavioral and cash flow-based credit. Foneloan’s approach of automated credit underwriting and loan management is the first step towards achieving the same. We are convinced with the effectiveness of the product, as well as the customer demand for it, which is the reason for expanding our Foneloan offering.” Established in 1984 AD, Nabil Bank has carved a cornerstone in the development of the financial services industry in Nepal. The Bank has always stayed true to its three strong pillars: Service Excellence, Technology, and Product innovation. This has led to the start of customer-centric banking culture with the development of innovative services and products, enriching customers' livelihoods and setting benchmarks in the Domestic Banking Sector. Nabil Bank, the first bank to provide Foneloan, has expanded the limit and eligibility of the digital financing product. Previously offering a loan limit of Rs. 100,000, now the limit for Nabil Foneloan has increased to Rs. 200,000. Additionally, Nabil Bank’s eligibility pool has also been expanded. Nabil Bank customers holding regular saving accounts and even QR merchants will be eligible for Foneloan, whereas only salary account holders could avail the service before.  Nabil Bank has also upgraded their Foneloan offerings, allowing eligible customers to see the Foneloan icon on the Home Screen of their Nabil Smart Bank App. Furthermore, customers can also get ‘Buy Now Pay Later’ and EMI option for Foneloan. Customers can scan any Fonepay merchant QR codes during purchases and choose “Buy Now Pay Later” option during checkout to pay for their purchase in monthly installments. Customers looking to clear their Foneloan dues early also have the option of prepaying their Foneloan directly from their apps. Nabil Bank takes no prepayment charge on prepayment, and allows instant clearance of loans provided that the customers have adequate funds in their accounts. “Banking in Nepal is still in process of evolution but is currently focused on collateral based lending primarily due to legal and regulatory regime and in view of ease in NPA management.”, said Mr. Niraj Basnet Danil, Head SME and Microfinance at Nabil Bank. “Though our risk-taking appetite is increasing in recent days, we need to shift from collateral-based loans to behavioral and cash flow-based credit. Foneloan’s approach of automated credit underwriting and loan management is the first step towards achieving the same. We are convinced with the effectiveness of the product, as well as the customer demand for it, which is the reason for expanding our Foneloan offering.” Established in 1984 AD, Nabil Bank has carved a cornerstone in the development of the financial services industry in Nepal. The Bank has always stayed true to its three strong pillars: Service Excellence, Technology, and Product innovation. This has led to the start of customer-centric banking culture with the development of innovative services and products, enriching customers' livelihoods and setting benchmarks in the Domestic Banking Sector. Nabil Bank, the first bank to provide Foneloan, has expanded the limit and eligibility of the digital financing product. Previously offering a loan limit of Rs. 100,000, now the limit for Nabil Foneloan has increased to Rs. 200,000. Additionally, Nabil Bank’s eligibility pool has also been expanded. Nabil Bank customers holding regular saving accounts and even QR merchants will be eligible for Foneloan, whereas only salary account holders could avail the service before.  Nabil Bank has also upgraded their Foneloan offerings, allowing eligible customers to see the Foneloan icon on the Home Screen of their Nabil Smart Bank App. Furthermore, customers can also get ‘Buy Now Pay Later’ and EMI option for Foneloan. Customers can scan any Fonepay merchant QR codes during purchases and choose “Buy Now Pay Later” option during checkout to pay for their purchase in monthly installments. Customers looking to clear their Foneloan dues early also have the option of prepaying their Foneloan directly from their apps. Nabil Bank takes no prepayment charge on prepayment, and allows instant clearance of loans provided that the customers have adequate funds in their accounts. “Banking in Nepal is still in process of evolution but is currently focused on collateral based lending primarily due to legal and regulatory regime and in view of ease in NPA management.”, said Mr. Niraj Basnet Danil, Head SME and Microfinance at Nabil Bank. “Though our risk-taking appetite is increasing in recent days, we need to shift from collateral-based loans to behavioral and cash flow-based credit. Foneloan’s approach of automated credit underwriting and loan management is the first step towards achieving the same. We are convinced with the effectiveness of the product, as well as the customer demand for it, which is the reason for expanding our Foneloan offering.” Established in 1984 AD, Nabil Bank has carved a cornerstone in the development of the financial services industry in Nepal. The Bank has always stayed true to its three strong pillars: Service Excellence, Technology, and Product innovation. This has led to the start of customer-centric banking culture with the development of innovative services and products, enriching customers' livelihoods and setting benchmarks in the Domestic Banking Sector. "
2022-10-19,The Base Rate of Banks Have Increased in Recent Month; Check Out the Current Base Rates of 26 Commercial Banks of Nepal,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/the-base-rate-of-banks-have-increased-in-recent-month-check-out-the-current-base-rates-of-26-commercial-banks-of-nepal-2022-10-19,"The base rate of the banks has raised as of Bhadra's end, 2079 BS. The increase in base rate has also caused the interest rates on bank loans and advances to rise. Base Rate (BR), as the name suggests, is the basic or the minimum rate of lending as per the guidelines of the Nepal Rastra Bank. No commercial bank is allowed to offer loans to the borrowers at a rate that is lower than the base rate. This bottom-line-rate system is measure adopted by NRB to increase the clarity and transparency of the lending process in Nepal. A credit risk premium along with the base rate is what that makes the actual pricing of a loan. Simply, If a central bank increases the base rate, commercial banks will increase their interest rates and borrowing becomes more expensive. If the base rate falls, commercial banks will decrease their interest rates and spending is likely to increase. Currently, BR is used as the benchmark for the interest rate of financial products in every commercial banks of Nepal. NRB has set this standard interest rate system and mandated it for all the banks in Nepal without any exception. Unless the Government asks for a change, banks are no way allowed to provide loans at an interest rate below their pre-fixed base rate. Here, we've used the base rates from each of Nepal's 26 commercial banks as of Bhadra 2079. However, the base rates for three banks—Nabil, Prime Commercial, and Global IME Banks are based on Ashad 2079. As per reports, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB), one of the 26 banks, has the lowest base rate of 8.20 percent as of Bhadra. Whereas, Civil Bank had the highest base rate 11.15%.  Note: The company whose name has a star (*) next to it is referenced in terms of the base rates as of Ashad 2079. The base rate of the banks has raised as of Bhadra's end, 2079 BS. The increase in base rate has also caused the interest rates on bank loans and advances to rise. Base Rate (BR), as the name suggests, is the basic or the minimum rate of lending as per the guidelines of the Nepal Rastra Bank. No commercial bank is allowed to offer loans to the borrowers at a rate that is lower than the base rate. This bottom-line-rate system is measure adopted by NRB to increase the clarity and transparency of the lending process in Nepal. A credit risk premium along with the base rate is what that makes the actual pricing of a loan. Simply, If a central bank increases the base rate, commercial banks will increase their interest rates and borrowing becomes more expensive. If the base rate falls, commercial banks will decrease their interest rates and spending is likely to increase. Currently, BR is used as the benchmark for the interest rate of financial products in every commercial banks of Nepal. NRB has set this standard interest rate system and mandated it for all the banks in Nepal without any exception. Unless the Government asks for a change, banks are no way allowed to provide loans at an interest rate below their pre-fixed base rate. Here, we've used the base rates from each of Nepal's 26 commercial banks as of Bhadra 2079. However, the base rates for three banks—Nabil, Prime Commercial, and Global IME Banks are based on Ashad 2079. As per reports, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB), one of the 26 banks, has the lowest base rate of 8.20 percent as of Bhadra. Whereas, Civil Bank had the highest base rate 11.15%.  Note: The company whose name has a star (*) next to it is referenced in terms of the base rates as of Ashad 2079. The base rate of the banks has raised as of Bhadra's end, 2079 BS. The increase in base rate has also caused the interest rates on bank loans and advances to rise. Base Rate (BR), as the name suggests, is the basic or the minimum rate of lending as per the guidelines of the Nepal Rastra Bank. No commercial bank is allowed to offer loans to the borrowers at a rate that is lower than the base rate. This bottom-line-rate system is measure adopted by NRB to increase the clarity and transparency of the lending process in Nepal. A credit risk premium along with the base rate is what that makes the actual pricing of a loan. Simply, If a central bank increases the base rate, commercial banks will increase their interest rates and borrowing becomes more expensive. If the base rate falls, commercial banks will decrease their interest rates and spending is likely to increase. Currently, BR is used as the benchmark for the interest rate of financial products in every commercial banks of Nepal. NRB has set this standard interest rate system and mandated it for all the banks in Nepal without any exception. Unless the Government asks for a change, banks are no way allowed to provide loans at an interest rate below their pre-fixed base rate. Here, we've used the base rates from each of Nepal's 26 commercial banks as of Bhadra 2079. However, the base rates for three banks—Nabil, Prime Commercial, and Global IME Banks are based on Ashad 2079. As per reports, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB), one of the 26 banks, has the lowest base rate of 8.20 percent as of Bhadra. Whereas, Civil Bank had the highest base rate 11.15%.  Note: The company whose name has a star (*) next to it is referenced in terms of the base rates as of Ashad 2079. "
2022-10-17,Interest Rates of Banks and Financial Institutions Remains Unchanged for Kartik,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/interest-rates-of-banks-and-financial-institutions-remains-unchanged-for-kartik-2022-10-17,"The interest rate that was kept in Ashoj has been maintained in Kartik month as well. The bank announced today when releasing the interest rate for Kartik that they are keeping the interest rate constant. Banks had already defied the six-month consensus in Ashoj by raising interest rates by an average of 10%. Banks in Ashoj maintained interest rates on term deposits at 12.133 percent for individuals, 10.133 percent for institutions, and 13.133 percent for remittances. Some banks have offered remittance interest rates as high as 15%. The finance minister's committee, which was established to lower interest rates, has advocated letting the market set interest rates. Despite the committee's lack of recommendations for an urgent interest rate reduction, bankers have decided to maintain the current rate. The interest rate that was kept in Ashoj has been maintained in Kartik month as well. The bank announced today when releasing the interest rate for Kartik that they are keeping the interest rate constant. Banks had already defied the six-month consensus in Ashoj by raising interest rates by an average of 10%. Banks in Ashoj maintained interest rates on term deposits at 12.133 percent for individuals, 10.133 percent for institutions, and 13.133 percent for remittances. Some banks have offered remittance interest rates as high as 15%. The finance minister's committee, which was established to lower interest rates, has advocated letting the market set interest rates. Despite the committee's lack of recommendations for an urgent interest rate reduction, bankers have decided to maintain the current rate. The interest rate that was kept in Ashoj has been maintained in Kartik month as well. The bank announced today when releasing the interest rate for Kartik that they are keeping the interest rate constant. Banks had already defied the six-month consensus in Ashoj by raising interest rates by an average of 10%. Banks in Ashoj maintained interest rates on term deposits at 12.133 percent for individuals, 10.133 percent for institutions, and 13.133 percent for remittances. Some banks have offered remittance interest rates as high as 15%. The finance minister's committee, which was established to lower interest rates, has advocated letting the market set interest rates. Despite the committee's lack of recommendations for an urgent interest rate reduction, bankers have decided to maintain the current rate. "
2022-10-13,Committee of Nepal Bankers Association has Determined that Raising Kartik's Interest Rates is not Reasonable,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/committee-of-nepal-bankers-association-has-determined-that-raising-kartiks-interest-rates-is-not-reasonable-2022-10-13,"The Working Committee of Nepal Bankers Association (NBA) has determined that raising Kartik's deposit interest is not reasonable. Banks raised Ashwin's interest rate from 11.03 percent to 12.133 percent. In Ashwin, the interest rate was raised after remaining constant for six months. After the increase in interest, people from theFederation of Nepalese Chambers of Commerce & Industry to the Nepal Chamber of Commerce protested. After all-around protests by businessmen, Finance Minister Janardan Sharma formed a committee to study how interest can be reduced. A report outlining the committee's recommendations to lower interest has already been submitted. It should not be increased right away, the Bankers' Association conference on Wednesday decided after widespread objections. But no choice has been taken regarding what to do next. The union is in ""virtual"" talks with the CEOs of each of the 26 banks. Every banker is free to raise or lower interest, according to a member of the group. However, it is acknowledged that maintaining the same interest will benefit everyone. Since there has been no rise in deposits despite the interest rate increase, banks have insisted on maintaining a stable interest rate. As the deposit interest increases, the cost increases, and the base rate increases. The interest paid on the loan rises in tandem with the base rate. As a result, the economy costs more money and there is more bad debt since older borrowers have a harder time making their payments. The Working Committee of Nepal Bankers Association (NBA) has determined that raising Kartik's deposit interest is not reasonable. Banks raised Ashwin's interest rate from 11.03 percent to 12.133 percent. In Ashwin, the interest rate was raised after remaining constant for six months. After the increase in interest, people from theFederation of Nepalese Chambers of Commerce & Industry to the Nepal Chamber of Commerce protested. After all-around protests by businessmen, Finance Minister Janardan Sharma formed a committee to study how interest can be reduced. A report outlining the committee's recommendations to lower interest has already been submitted. It should not be increased right away, the Bankers' Association conference on Wednesday decided after widespread objections. But no choice has been taken regarding what to do next. The union is in ""virtual"" talks with the CEOs of each of the 26 banks. Every banker is free to raise or lower interest, according to a member of the group. However, it is acknowledged that maintaining the same interest will benefit everyone. Since there has been no rise in deposits despite the interest rate increase, banks have insisted on maintaining a stable interest rate. As the deposit interest increases, the cost increases, and the base rate increases. The interest paid on the loan rises in tandem with the base rate. As a result, the economy costs more money and there is more bad debt since older borrowers have a harder time making their payments. The Working Committee of Nepal Bankers Association (NBA) has determined that raising Kartik's deposit interest is not reasonable. Banks raised Ashwin's interest rate from 11.03 percent to 12.133 percent. In Ashwin, the interest rate was raised after remaining constant for six months. After the increase in interest, people from theFederation of Nepalese Chambers of Commerce & Industry to the Nepal Chamber of Commerce protested. After all-around protests by businessmen, Finance Minister Janardan Sharma formed a committee to study how interest can be reduced. A report outlining the committee's recommendations to lower interest has already been submitted. It should not be increased right away, the Bankers' Association conference on Wednesday decided after widespread objections. But no choice has been taken regarding what to do next. The union is in ""virtual"" talks with the CEOs of each of the 26 banks. Every banker is free to raise or lower interest, according to a member of the group. However, it is acknowledged that maintaining the same interest will benefit everyone. Since there has been no rise in deposits despite the interest rate increase, banks have insisted on maintaining a stable interest rate. As the deposit interest increases, the cost increases, and the base rate increases. The interest paid on the loan rises in tandem with the base rate. As a result, the economy costs more money and there is more bad debt since older borrowers have a harder time making their payments. "
2022-09-28,Nabil Bank signs MoU with  Max Health Care; bank’s card customers to receive special discount of 12% at India based hospital,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-signs-mou-with-max-health-care-banks-card-customers-to-receive-special-discount-of-12-at-india-based-hospital-2022-09-28,"Nabil Bank has signed a MOU with Max Health Care of India to provide a special discount on its medical services.  The benefits of 12% discount can be availed by customers by using bank’s card services, as per the media statement. The MoU was signed between CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Dhungana and the marketing and sales head of the hospital Mr. Anas Abdul Wajid, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has signed a MOU with Max Health Care of India to provide a special discount on its medical services.  The benefits of 12% discount can be availed by customers by using bank’s card services, as per the media statement. The MoU was signed between CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Dhungana and the marketing and sales head of the hospital Mr. Anas Abdul Wajid, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has signed a MOU with Max Health Care of India to provide a special discount on its medical services.  The benefits of 12% discount can be availed by customers by using bank’s card services, as per the media statement. The MoU was signed between CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Dhungana and the marketing and sales head of the hospital Mr. Anas Abdul Wajid, as per the media statement. "
2022-09-26,Nabil Bank expands with 1st BLB unit at Barahatal of Surkhet,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-expands-with-1st-blb-unit-at-barahatal-of-surkhet-2022-09-26,"Nabil Bank has brought into operation its first branchless banking unit at Barahatal gaupalika-2 Ranighat in Surkhet on Ashoj 9, 2079.  The latest facility was jointly inaugurated by chairman of gaupalika Mr. Bhim Bahadur Bhandari and Senior Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, as per the media statement. The bank has appointed Mr. Manoj Kumar Thapa as the commercial representative for the newly started service, as per the media statement.   Nabil Bank has brought into operation its first branchless banking unit at Barahatal gaupalika-2 Ranighat in Surkhet on Ashoj 9, 2079.  The latest facility was jointly inaugurated by chairman of gaupalika Mr. Bhim Bahadur Bhandari and Senior Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, as per the media statement. The bank has appointed Mr. Manoj Kumar Thapa as the commercial representative for the newly started service, as per the media statement.   Nabil Bank has brought into operation its first branchless banking unit at Barahatal gaupalika-2 Ranighat in Surkhet on Ashoj 9, 2079.  The latest facility was jointly inaugurated by chairman of gaupalika Mr. Bhim Bahadur Bhandari and Senior Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, as per the media statement. The bank has appointed Mr. Manoj Kumar Thapa as the commercial representative for the newly started service, as per the media statement.   "
2022-09-23,Nabil Bank receives two Honorable Mention at 2022 Global SME Finance Awards; bank’s special focus on SME sector of Nepal receives international appraisal,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-receives-two-honorable-mention-at-2022-global-sme-finance-awards-banks-special-focus-on-sme-sector-of-nepal-receives-international-appraisal-2022-09-23,"Nabil Bank has been awarded an honorable mention in two categories SME Financier of the Year – Asia and Product Innovation of the Year 2022 at 2022 Global SME Finance Awards held in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. Organized by IFC, a member of the World Bank Group, and the SME Finance Forum, the Global SME Finance Awards recognized Nabil’s rapid expansion and significant contribution to the growth of the SME sector over the course of the previous fiscal year. Nabil Bank had received Honorable Mention in SME Financer of the Year – Asia in 2021 as well.  Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head of SME and MF, who has attended the three-day conference said, “It is the proud moment for the entire country to get recognized in the international arena which is an encouragement for us to deliver more in the SME Banking segment being a responsible bank.” He further said, “Learning from the international participants and the success stories have shown us the pathways to create in the coming days.” Adding to this, Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, CEO of Nabil Bank said, “Increasing funding for SMEs and working to address the pressing issues that our SME sector is currently facing amid the liquidity crunch are top priorities for Nabil Bank. By reengineering our business process and shifting our strategic focus to SME credit, the Bank has made and will continue to make a substantial contribution to the economic growth of the nation.” The 9th Global SME Finance Forum was conducted from 19th to 21st September in Cambodia in presence of more than 400+ participants from more than 50+ countries with main focus on the power of digital transformation in promoting inclusive, sustainable, and responsible finance. The event was able to summon global thought leaders, climate finance advocates, leading experts and practitioners in the field of SME finance to share their vision, insight and experience in promoting green finance for SMEs. Matthew Gamser, CEO of the SME Finance Forum said, “This year has seen the largest field of applicants ever, as we expand to a fifth award category in the important area of greening SME financing. We have more countries, with more financial products and approaches than ever before.  It was a tall order for the almost 100 judges, whom we thank profusely for their expert, informed and unbiased judgment about who merited recognition.” With the experience of over three decades in banking field along with a highly dedicated team, Nabil bank is persistently working on providing superior service delivery by enhancing value to all the customers through a wide network of 233 branches and 269 ATMs spread across the country. Nabil Bank has been awarded an honorable mention in two categories SME Financier of the Year – Asia and Product Innovation of the Year 2022 at 2022 Global SME Finance Awards held in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. Organized by IFC, a member of the World Bank Group, and the SME Finance Forum, the Global SME Finance Awards recognized Nabil’s rapid expansion and significant contribution to the growth of the SME sector over the course of the previous fiscal year. Nabil Bank had received Honorable Mention in SME Financer of the Year – Asia in 2021 as well.  Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head of SME and MF, who has attended the three-day conference said, “It is the proud moment for the entire country to get recognized in the international arena which is an encouragement for us to deliver more in the SME Banking segment being a responsible bank.” He further said, “Learning from the international participants and the success stories have shown us the pathways to create in the coming days.” Adding to this, Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, CEO of Nabil Bank said, “Increasing funding for SMEs and working to address the pressing issues that our SME sector is currently facing amid the liquidity crunch are top priorities for Nabil Bank. By reengineering our business process and shifting our strategic focus to SME credit, the Bank has made and will continue to make a substantial contribution to the economic growth of the nation.” The 9th Global SME Finance Forum was conducted from 19th to 21st September in Cambodia in presence of more than 400+ participants from more than 50+ countries with main focus on the power of digital transformation in promoting inclusive, sustainable, and responsible finance. The event was able to summon global thought leaders, climate finance advocates, leading experts and practitioners in the field of SME finance to share their vision, insight and experience in promoting green finance for SMEs. Matthew Gamser, CEO of the SME Finance Forum said, “This year has seen the largest field of applicants ever, as we expand to a fifth award category in the important area of greening SME financing. We have more countries, with more financial products and approaches than ever before.  It was a tall order for the almost 100 judges, whom we thank profusely for their expert, informed and unbiased judgment about who merited recognition.” With the experience of over three decades in banking field along with a highly dedicated team, Nabil bank is persistently working on providing superior service delivery by enhancing value to all the customers through a wide network of 233 branches and 269 ATMs spread across the country. Nabil Bank has been awarded an honorable mention in two categories SME Financier of the Year – Asia and Product Innovation of the Year 2022 at 2022 Global SME Finance Awards held in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. Organized by IFC, a member of the World Bank Group, and the SME Finance Forum, the Global SME Finance Awards recognized Nabil’s rapid expansion and significant contribution to the growth of the SME sector over the course of the previous fiscal year. Nabil Bank had received Honorable Mention in SME Financer of the Year – Asia in 2021 as well.  Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head of SME and MF, who has attended the three-day conference said, “It is the proud moment for the entire country to get recognized in the international arena which is an encouragement for us to deliver more in the SME Banking segment being a responsible bank.” He further said, “Learning from the international participants and the success stories have shown us the pathways to create in the coming days.” Adding to this, Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, CEO of Nabil Bank said, “Increasing funding for SMEs and working to address the pressing issues that our SME sector is currently facing amid the liquidity crunch are top priorities for Nabil Bank. By reengineering our business process and shifting our strategic focus to SME credit, the Bank has made and will continue to make a substantial contribution to the economic growth of the nation.” The 9th Global SME Finance Forum was conducted from 19th to 21st September in Cambodia in presence of more than 400+ participants from more than 50+ countries with main focus on the power of digital transformation in promoting inclusive, sustainable, and responsible finance. The event was able to summon global thought leaders, climate finance advocates, leading experts and practitioners in the field of SME finance to share their vision, insight and experience in promoting green finance for SMEs. Matthew Gamser, CEO of the SME Finance Forum said, “This year has seen the largest field of applicants ever, as we expand to a fifth award category in the important area of greening SME financing. We have more countries, with more financial products and approaches than ever before.  It was a tall order for the almost 100 judges, whom we thank profusely for their expert, informed and unbiased judgment about who merited recognition.” With the experience of over three decades in banking field along with a highly dedicated team, Nabil bank is persistently working on providing superior service delivery by enhancing value to all the customers through a wide network of 233 branches and 269 ATMs spread across the country. "
2022-09-23,Prisoner’s Dilemma: In Present Context With Increment of Interest Rates by Financial Institutions,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/prisoners-dilemma-in-present-context-with-increment-of-interest-rates-by-financial-institutions-2022-09-23,"Prisoner’s Dilemma: In present context with increment of interest rates by Financial Institutions. Let’s assume that the police arrested two suspects for a crime. Both suspects are held in different location or cells and they cannot communicate with each other in any form. During interrogation, the police officer offers both suspects the opportunity to either remain silent or blame the other suspect. Please remember the suspects cannot communicate with each other hence they are unaware of what the other would do i.e. whether remain silent or put the blame on the other person. What is interesting is the payoff or say the charges one has face in different scenarios as offered by the police personnel. If both suspects remain silent, they both will serve only one year in prison. If they both blame each other, they both will serve three years in prison. If one of the suspects blames another and the other remains silent, the suspect who remained silent would serve five years in prison, while another suspect would be set free. The payoff below shows the possible payoffs for the 4 different scenarios: Prisoner’s Dilemma Explained In such situations, both suspects do not know the decision chosen by another suspect. Therefore, the most rational decision from the perspective of self-interest is to blame the other suspect. For example, suspect A is afraid of remaining silent because in such a case, he can receive five years in prison if suspect B blames him. If suspect A chooses to blame suspect B, he can be set free if suspect B remains silent. However, that is not likely, because suspect B is using the same rationale and he is also going to blame suspect A. If the suspects could collude, ideally both would remain silent as the decision of remaining silent by both suspects provides the more optimal payoff, it is not a rational option because both parties behave in their self-interest and are unaware of what the other would do. The decision of blaming another suspect is a rational decision from that perspective and it provides Nash equilibrium despite the worse payoff In the context of present Banking: Agreement by Bankers: As long as NBA brokered arrangement between bankers, its similar to suspects colluding or coming to an agreement. This would result in Suspects remaining silent as that is the best payoff and the interest rates remained at a prescribed level for a prolonged period as suggested by NBA to bankers. Current situation where Banks were free to determine their rates and no agreement reached through NBA, there was a situation created similar to Prisoner’s Dilemma which can be evaluated considering an example of two banks and how their individual decision could impact them and the other bank. Conclusion - Since the Banks are unsure what the other Banks would do in scenario where there is no “Gentlemen Agreement” the most plausible decision would be to increase the rates to achieve Nash equilibrium. Prisoner’s Dilemma: In present context with increment of interest rates by Financial Institutions. Let’s assume that the police arrested two suspects for a crime. Both suspects are held in different location or cells and they cannot communicate with each other in any form. During interrogation, the police officer offers both suspects the opportunity to either remain silent or blame the other suspect. Please remember the suspects cannot communicate with each other hence they are unaware of what the other would do i.e. whether remain silent or put the blame on the other person. What is interesting is the payoff or say the charges one has face in different scenarios as offered by the police personnel. If both suspects remain silent, they both will serve only one year in prison. If they both blame each other, they both will serve three years in prison. If one of the suspects blames another and the other remains silent, the suspect who remained silent would serve five years in prison, while another suspect would be set free. The payoff below shows the possible payoffs for the 4 different scenarios: Prisoner’s Dilemma Explained In such situations, both suspects do not know the decision chosen by another suspect. Therefore, the most rational decision from the perspective of self-interest is to blame the other suspect. For example, suspect A is afraid of remaining silent because in such a case, he can receive five years in prison if suspect B blames him. If suspect A chooses to blame suspect B, he can be set free if suspect B remains silent. However, that is not likely, because suspect B is using the same rationale and he is also going to blame suspect A. If the suspects could collude, ideally both would remain silent as the decision of remaining silent by both suspects provides the more optimal payoff, it is not a rational option because both parties behave in their self-interest and are unaware of what the other would do. The decision of blaming another suspect is a rational decision from that perspective and it provides Nash equilibrium despite the worse payoff In the context of present Banking: Agreement by Bankers: As long as NBA brokered arrangement between bankers, its similar to suspects colluding or coming to an agreement. This would result in Suspects remaining silent as that is the best payoff and the interest rates remained at a prescribed level for a prolonged period as suggested by NBA to bankers. Current situation where Banks were free to determine their rates and no agreement reached through NBA, there was a situation created similar to Prisoner’s Dilemma which can be evaluated considering an example of two banks and how their individual decision could impact them and the other bank. Conclusion - Since the Banks are unsure what the other Banks would do in scenario where there is no “Gentlemen Agreement” the most plausible decision would be to increase the rates to achieve Nash equilibrium. Prisoner’s Dilemma: In present context with increment of interest rates by Financial Institutions. Let’s assume that the police arrested two suspects for a crime. Both suspects are held in different location or cells and they cannot communicate with each other in any form. During interrogation, the police officer offers both suspects the opportunity to either remain silent or blame the other suspect. Please remember the suspects cannot communicate with each other hence they are unaware of what the other would do i.e. whether remain silent or put the blame on the other person. What is interesting is the payoff or say the charges one has face in different scenarios as offered by the police personnel. If both suspects remain silent, they both will serve only one year in prison. If they both blame each other, they both will serve three years in prison. If one of the suspects blames another and the other remains silent, the suspect who remained silent would serve five years in prison, while another suspect would be set free. The payoff below shows the possible payoffs for the 4 different scenarios: Prisoner’s Dilemma Explained In such situations, both suspects do not know the decision chosen by another suspect. Therefore, the most rational decision from the perspective of self-interest is to blame the other suspect. For example, suspect A is afraid of remaining silent because in such a case, he can receive five years in prison if suspect B blames him. If suspect A chooses to blame suspect B, he can be set free if suspect B remains silent. However, that is not likely, because suspect B is using the same rationale and he is also going to blame suspect A. If the suspects could collude, ideally both would remain silent as the decision of remaining silent by both suspects provides the more optimal payoff, it is not a rational option because both parties behave in their self-interest and are unaware of what the other would do. The decision of blaming another suspect is a rational decision from that perspective and it provides Nash equilibrium despite the worse payoff In the context of present Banking: Agreement by Bankers: As long as NBA brokered arrangement between bankers, its similar to suspects colluding or coming to an agreement. This would result in Suspects remaining silent as that is the best payoff and the interest rates remained at a prescribed level for a prolonged period as suggested by NBA to bankers. Current situation where Banks were free to determine their rates and no agreement reached through NBA, there was a situation created similar to Prisoner’s Dilemma which can be evaluated considering an example of two banks and how their individual decision could impact them and the other bank. Conclusion - Since the Banks are unsure what the other Banks would do in scenario where there is no “Gentlemen Agreement” the most plausible decision would be to increase the rates to achieve Nash equilibrium. "
2022-09-21,Most Banks Alter Their Interest Rates; Individuals Deposit Interest Rates Increased By 3 Digits After the Decimal Point,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/most-banks-alter-their-interest-rates-individuals-deposit-interest-rates-increased-by-3-digits-after-the-decimal-point-2022-09-21,"Most banks alter their interest rates and individuals deposit interest rates increased by 3 Digits after the decimal point, making it 12.133 percent.  On Ashoj 1, all banks reported an interest rate of 12.13 percent for fixed deposits, but some banks used a clever strategy and published the interest rate with three digits after the decimal point, keeping the interest rate at 12.133 percent. As a result, there was a small increase in the interest rate on institutional deposits. The deposits in other banks started to flow out as the interest rates altered. For the past few days, there has been a disagreement among the bankers. The bank that published the interest rate with three digits after the decimal point was given time to adjust the interest rate. However, the said banks did not adjust the interest rates, and other banks have also started advertising interest rates with three digits added after the decimal. As a result, more than half of the banks published new interest rates on Wednesday. On Wednesday, banks like Standard Chartered, Prabhu, Laxmi, Mega, and Civil also revised their interest rates and published new interest rates, keeping the rate to three digits after the decimal point. According to a Rastra Bank official, the harmful competition has ended as a result of certain banks' recent interest rate revisions, which brought them into in line with those of other competitor banks. Most banks alter their interest rates and individuals deposit interest rates increased by 3 Digits after the decimal point, making it 12.133 percent.  On Ashoj 1, all banks reported an interest rate of 12.13 percent for fixed deposits, but some banks used a clever strategy and published the interest rate with three digits after the decimal point, keeping the interest rate at 12.133 percent. As a result, there was a small increase in the interest rate on institutional deposits. The deposits in other banks started to flow out as the interest rates altered. For the past few days, there has been a disagreement among the bankers. The bank that published the interest rate with three digits after the decimal point was given time to adjust the interest rate. However, the said banks did not adjust the interest rates, and other banks have also started advertising interest rates with three digits added after the decimal. As a result, more than half of the banks published new interest rates on Wednesday. On Wednesday, banks like Standard Chartered, Prabhu, Laxmi, Mega, and Civil also revised their interest rates and published new interest rates, keeping the rate to three digits after the decimal point. According to a Rastra Bank official, the harmful competition has ended as a result of certain banks' recent interest rate revisions, which brought them into in line with those of other competitor banks. Most banks alter their interest rates and individuals deposit interest rates increased by 3 Digits after the decimal point, making it 12.133 percent.  On Ashoj 1, all banks reported an interest rate of 12.13 percent for fixed deposits, but some banks used a clever strategy and published the interest rate with three digits after the decimal point, keeping the interest rate at 12.133 percent. As a result, there was a small increase in the interest rate on institutional deposits. The deposits in other banks started to flow out as the interest rates altered. For the past few days, there has been a disagreement among the bankers. The bank that published the interest rate with three digits after the decimal point was given time to adjust the interest rate. However, the said banks did not adjust the interest rates, and other banks have also started advertising interest rates with three digits added after the decimal. As a result, more than half of the banks published new interest rates on Wednesday. On Wednesday, banks like Standard Chartered, Prabhu, Laxmi, Mega, and Civil also revised their interest rates and published new interest rates, keeping the rate to three digits after the decimal point. According to a Rastra Bank official, the harmful competition has ended as a result of certain banks' recent interest rate revisions, which brought them into in line with those of other competitor banks. "
2022-09-21,Nabil brings NADA special scheme; Bank’s stall no. G12 in the expo to offer immediate loan assessment and Conditional Offer Letter for purchasing EV and electric bikes,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-brings-nada-special-scheme-banks-stall-no-g12-in-the-expo-to-offer-immediate-loan-assessment-and-conditional-offer-letter-for-purchasing-ev-and-electric-bikes-2022-09-21,"Nabil Bank has come up with a special festive scheme for those who are planning to purchase electric vehicles (EV) targeting to NADA EV Expo 2022 starting from September 22 to 25 2022 held in Bhrikutimandap, Kathmandu. The bank has come up with an attractive interest rate while purchasing EVs with discounts on loan processing fees and free issuance of Credit Card.  As a contribution to the environment and sustainability, the bank has come up with attractive offers to finance EVs and electric scooters. Nabil Bank’s stall no. G12 in the expo is offering immediate loan assessment and Conditional Offer Letters for its customers with many attractive offers. Nabil Bank has come up with a special festive scheme for those who are planning to purchase electric vehicles (EV) targeting to NADA EV Expo 2022 starting from September 22 to 25 2022 held in Bhrikutimandap, Kathmandu. The bank has come up with an attractive interest rate while purchasing EVs with discounts on loan processing fees and free issuance of Credit Card.  As a contribution to the environment and sustainability, the bank has come up with attractive offers to finance EVs and electric scooters. Nabil Bank’s stall no. G12 in the expo is offering immediate loan assessment and Conditional Offer Letters for its customers with many attractive offers. Nabil Bank has come up with a special festive scheme for those who are planning to purchase electric vehicles (EV) targeting to NADA EV Expo 2022 starting from September 22 to 25 2022 held in Bhrikutimandap, Kathmandu. The bank has come up with an attractive interest rate while purchasing EVs with discounts on loan processing fees and free issuance of Credit Card.  As a contribution to the environment and sustainability, the bank has come up with attractive offers to finance EVs and electric scooters. Nabil Bank’s stall no. G12 in the expo is offering immediate loan assessment and Conditional Offer Letters for its customers with many attractive offers. "
2022-09-20,Nabil brings ‘Home Loan Dashain Tihar Dhamaka’ in market; first-time property buyers to enjoy EMI up to 35 years with other attractive benefits,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-brings-home-loan-dashain-tihar-dhamaka-in-market-first-time-property-buyers-to-enjoy-emi-up-to-35-years-with-other-attractive-benefits-2022-09-20,"Nabil Bank has launched its new housing loan scheme ‘Home Loan Dashain Tihar Dhamaka’ targeting to approaching Dashain Tihar festivals. In this scheme, the bank has offered attractive interest rates and discounted service fees with free Credit Card issuance.  Anyone thinking of purchasing a new property or constructing of the house can apply for the loan. According to the bank, if first-time home buyers apply for a housing loan, the bank can finance up to 70% with maximum tenure up to 35 years with affordable EMI. For others, the bank can finance up to 60%. This scheme is valid till limited time only. Nabil Bank has launched its new housing loan scheme ‘Home Loan Dashain Tihar Dhamaka’ targeting to approaching Dashain Tihar festivals. In this scheme, the bank has offered attractive interest rates and discounted service fees with free Credit Card issuance.  Anyone thinking of purchasing a new property or constructing of the house can apply for the loan. According to the bank, if first-time home buyers apply for a housing loan, the bank can finance up to 70% with maximum tenure up to 35 years with affordable EMI. For others, the bank can finance up to 60%. This scheme is valid till limited time only. Nabil Bank has launched its new housing loan scheme ‘Home Loan Dashain Tihar Dhamaka’ targeting to approaching Dashain Tihar festivals. In this scheme, the bank has offered attractive interest rates and discounted service fees with free Credit Card issuance.  Anyone thinking of purchasing a new property or constructing of the house can apply for the loan. According to the bank, if first-time home buyers apply for a housing loan, the bank can finance up to 70% with maximum tenure up to 35 years with affordable EMI. For others, the bank can finance up to 60%. This scheme is valid till limited time only. "
2022-09-16,Nabil Launches Visa Direct Service; now send easy remittance from 180+ countries directly to Nabil accounts linked to Visa cards,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-launches-visa-direct-service-now-send-easy-remittance-from-180-countries-directly-to-nabil-accounts-linked-to-visa-cards-2022-09-16,"Nabil Bank has launched its Visa Direct Service in association with VISA International to simplify domestic and cross-border payments. With this service, the bank enables customers to push funds disbursements and remittances to Visa cards rapidly across borders including domestic disbursements and remittances. Anyone residing abroad wanting to send fund can enter 16-digit Visa card number issued by Nabil Bank through 180 plus Visa Direct participating countries across the world. One can access the service through Net-Banking, Mobile or ATM. According to the bank, the money can be received in Nabil Visa credit, Debit (bank account) and Prepaid card. With the inclusion of this service, Nabil Visa cardholders can receive money from anywhere in the world in his/her card/account conveniently and securely. “Nabil has always focused and invested in promoting digital solutions for our customers. We are glad to launch Visa Direct Service to our customers; which has opened one more channel to receive remittance domestically and from across the globe in convenient and secure manner,” said Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, CEO of Nabil Bank. He believed that this service will help bank enhance customers’ experience and ease in receiving remittance.       Nabil Bank has launched its Visa Direct Service in association with VISA International to simplify domestic and cross-border payments. With this service, the bank enables customers to push funds disbursements and remittances to Visa cards rapidly across borders including domestic disbursements and remittances. Anyone residing abroad wanting to send fund can enter 16-digit Visa card number issued by Nabil Bank through 180 plus Visa Direct participating countries across the world. One can access the service through Net-Banking, Mobile or ATM. According to the bank, the money can be received in Nabil Visa credit, Debit (bank account) and Prepaid card. With the inclusion of this service, Nabil Visa cardholders can receive money from anywhere in the world in his/her card/account conveniently and securely. “Nabil has always focused and invested in promoting digital solutions for our customers. We are glad to launch Visa Direct Service to our customers; which has opened one more channel to receive remittance domestically and from across the globe in convenient and secure manner,” said Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, CEO of Nabil Bank. He believed that this service will help bank enhance customers’ experience and ease in receiving remittance.       Nabil Bank has launched its Visa Direct Service in association with VISA International to simplify domestic and cross-border payments. With this service, the bank enables customers to push funds disbursements and remittances to Visa cards rapidly across borders including domestic disbursements and remittances. Anyone residing abroad wanting to send fund can enter 16-digit Visa card number issued by Nabil Bank through 180 plus Visa Direct participating countries across the world. One can access the service through Net-Banking, Mobile or ATM. According to the bank, the money can be received in Nabil Visa credit, Debit (bank account) and Prepaid card. With the inclusion of this service, Nabil Visa cardholders can receive money from anywhere in the world in his/her card/account conveniently and securely. “Nabil has always focused and invested in promoting digital solutions for our customers. We are glad to launch Visa Direct Service to our customers; which has opened one more channel to receive remittance domestically and from across the globe in convenient and secure manner,” said Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, CEO of Nabil Bank. He believed that this service will help bank enhance customers’ experience and ease in receiving remittance.       "
2022-09-15,Nabil Bank launches mobile app-based Gen Alpha saving account; teach your kids to develop saving habits and gain some financial awareness with fun,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-mobile-app-based-gen-alpha-saving-account-teach-your-kids-to-develop-saving-habits-and-gain-some-financial-awareness-with-fun-2022-09-15,"Nabil Bank launched an app-based Nabil Gen Alpha saving account on Bhadra 29, 2079 amid the celebration of Children's Day with Ms. Prensa Regmi the renown young social worker as its brand ambassador.  The event was also attended by chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Poudyal, CEO Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, among others who highlighted on the bank’s effort to invest on the future generation, as per the media statement. The bank has launched the first-ever digital-based saving account in Nepal so as to teach saving habits to children and equip them with financial know-how. Children below 18 years and their parents can utilize the Gen Alpha app and the saving account to create tasks and make savings, as per the media statement.   Nabil Bank launched an app-based Nabil Gen Alpha saving account on Bhadra 29, 2079 amid the celebration of Children's Day with Ms. Prensa Regmi the renown young social worker as its brand ambassador.  The event was also attended by chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Poudyal, CEO Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, among others who highlighted on the bank’s effort to invest on the future generation, as per the media statement. The bank has launched the first-ever digital-based saving account in Nepal so as to teach saving habits to children and equip them with financial know-how. Children below 18 years and their parents can utilize the Gen Alpha app and the saving account to create tasks and make savings, as per the media statement.   Nabil Bank launched an app-based Nabil Gen Alpha saving account on Bhadra 29, 2079 amid the celebration of Children's Day with Ms. Prensa Regmi the renown young social worker as its brand ambassador.  The event was also attended by chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Poudyal, CEO Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, among others who highlighted on the bank’s effort to invest on the future generation, as per the media statement. The bank has launched the first-ever digital-based saving account in Nepal so as to teach saving habits to children and equip them with financial know-how. Children below 18 years and their parents can utilize the Gen Alpha app and the saving account to create tasks and make savings, as per the media statement.   "
2022-09-13,Nabil Bank expands with 8 new branches inside and outside Kathmandu; providing banking services with 233 branches so far,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-expands-with-8-new-branches-inside-and-outside-kathmandu-providing-banking-services-with-233-branches-so-far-2022-09-13,"Nabil Bank has expanded with eight new branches in a single day. The bank has expanded at Sankhu which was jointly inaugurated by Mayor of Shankharapur Nagarpalika Mr. Ramesh Napit, chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Poudyal, and Deputy CEO Mr. Bhupendra Pandey, Mangalbazar branch by Lalitpur Mayor Mr. Chiri Babu Maharjan, BoD of the bank Mr. Ananta Poudyal and Senior Deputy CEO Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Mulpani branch by ward Chair of Kageswori Manohara Mr. Prakash Phuyal and Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Binay Kumar Regmi, Bhagwanpau branch by ward chair of Kathmandu-15 Mr. Ishor Man Dangol and Chief Risk Officer of the bank Ms. Namita Dixit inside Kathmandu valley.  Likewise, the Kakarvitta branch was inaugurated by Mayor of Mechinagar Nagarpalika Mr. Gopal Chandra Budhathoki, Surunga branch by Mayor of Kankai Nagarpalika Mr. Rajendra Kumar Pokharel, and Ilam branch by Mayor of Ilam Nagarpalika Mr. Kedar Thapa amid separate events which were also attended by CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana. Likewise, Bhandara branch of the bank was inaugurated by Mayor of Rapti Nagarpalika Mr.  Shamsher Lama and the Chief Strategy Officer of the bank Mr. Krishna Dutta Bhattarai, as per the media statement. With this expansion, the bank currently has 233 branches under its network. Nabil Bank has expanded with eight new branches in a single day. The bank has expanded at Sankhu which was jointly inaugurated by Mayor of Shankharapur Nagarpalika Mr. Ramesh Napit, chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Poudyal, and Deputy CEO Mr. Bhupendra Pandey, Mangalbazar branch by Lalitpur Mayor Mr. Chiri Babu Maharjan, BoD of the bank Mr. Ananta Poudyal and Senior Deputy CEO Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Mulpani branch by ward Chair of Kageswori Manohara Mr. Prakash Phuyal and Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Binay Kumar Regmi, Bhagwanpau branch by ward chair of Kathmandu-15 Mr. Ishor Man Dangol and Chief Risk Officer of the bank Ms. Namita Dixit inside Kathmandu valley.  Likewise, the Kakarvitta branch was inaugurated by Mayor of Mechinagar Nagarpalika Mr. Gopal Chandra Budhathoki, Surunga branch by Mayor of Kankai Nagarpalika Mr. Rajendra Kumar Pokharel, and Ilam branch by Mayor of Ilam Nagarpalika Mr. Kedar Thapa amid separate events which were also attended by CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana. Likewise, Bhandara branch of the bank was inaugurated by Mayor of Rapti Nagarpalika Mr.  Shamsher Lama and the Chief Strategy Officer of the bank Mr. Krishna Dutta Bhattarai, as per the media statement. With this expansion, the bank currently has 233 branches under its network. Nabil Bank has expanded with eight new branches in a single day. The bank has expanded at Sankhu which was jointly inaugurated by Mayor of Shankharapur Nagarpalika Mr. Ramesh Napit, chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Poudyal, and Deputy CEO Mr. Bhupendra Pandey, Mangalbazar branch by Lalitpur Mayor Mr. Chiri Babu Maharjan, BoD of the bank Mr. Ananta Poudyal and Senior Deputy CEO Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Mulpani branch by ward Chair of Kageswori Manohara Mr. Prakash Phuyal and Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Binay Kumar Regmi, Bhagwanpau branch by ward chair of Kathmandu-15 Mr. Ishor Man Dangol and Chief Risk Officer of the bank Ms. Namita Dixit inside Kathmandu valley.  Likewise, the Kakarvitta branch was inaugurated by Mayor of Mechinagar Nagarpalika Mr. Gopal Chandra Budhathoki, Surunga branch by Mayor of Kankai Nagarpalika Mr. Rajendra Kumar Pokharel, and Ilam branch by Mayor of Ilam Nagarpalika Mr. Kedar Thapa amid separate events which were also attended by CEO of the bank Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana. Likewise, Bhandara branch of the bank was inaugurated by Mayor of Rapti Nagarpalika Mr.  Shamsher Lama and the Chief Strategy Officer of the bank Mr. Krishna Dutta Bhattarai, as per the media statement. With this expansion, the bank currently has 233 branches under its network. "
2022-09-11,Nabil Bank & Unilever Nepal ink agreement for Channel Financing,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-unilever-nepal-ink-agreement-for-channel-financing-2022-09-11,"Nabil Bank Ltd. has entered into an agreement with Unilever Nepal Limited to provide Channel Financing Facility to its registered members. Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, CEO of Nabil Bank Ltd., and Mr. Amlan Mukherjee, MD of Unilever Nepal Ltd signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on September 05, 2022 in presence of Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Sr. DCEO of Nabil Bank and Mr. Niraj Basnet (Danil), Head - SME & MF, Nabil Bank along with some of the major distributors of Unilever Nepal Limited. After MoU, Unilever provided ‘Reference Letter’ of three distributors for processing channel financing from the bank.     With this strategic partnership, the bank assures Channel Partners like distributors, dealers, and retailers of Unilever to avail Channel Financing Facility with attractive pricing and collateral support. The major attraction of this facility is that it allows distributors to receive full value of bills issued to its distributors, dealers, and retailers through bank financing. Furthermore, the registered partners can also avail of various other SME loan facilities to meet its financing requirements. Speaking about the partnership with Unilever Nepal Limited, Mr. Dhungana stated that the bank aims to support associated members of Unilever Nepal Limited in managing working capital and cash flow shortages through Channel Financing loans and various other SME loans so as to improve the sustainability of SME business.     Nabil Bank Ltd. has entered into an agreement with Unilever Nepal Limited to provide Channel Financing Facility to its registered members. Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, CEO of Nabil Bank Ltd., and Mr. Amlan Mukherjee, MD of Unilever Nepal Ltd signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on September 05, 2022 in presence of Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Sr. DCEO of Nabil Bank and Mr. Niraj Basnet (Danil), Head - SME & MF, Nabil Bank along with some of the major distributors of Unilever Nepal Limited. After MoU, Unilever provided ‘Reference Letter’ of three distributors for processing channel financing from the bank.     With this strategic partnership, the bank assures Channel Partners like distributors, dealers, and retailers of Unilever to avail Channel Financing Facility with attractive pricing and collateral support. The major attraction of this facility is that it allows distributors to receive full value of bills issued to its distributors, dealers, and retailers through bank financing. Furthermore, the registered partners can also avail of various other SME loan facilities to meet its financing requirements. Speaking about the partnership with Unilever Nepal Limited, Mr. Dhungana stated that the bank aims to support associated members of Unilever Nepal Limited in managing working capital and cash flow shortages through Channel Financing loans and various other SME loans so as to improve the sustainability of SME business.     Nabil Bank Ltd. has entered into an agreement with Unilever Nepal Limited to provide Channel Financing Facility to its registered members. Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, CEO of Nabil Bank Ltd., and Mr. Amlan Mukherjee, MD of Unilever Nepal Ltd signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on September 05, 2022 in presence of Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Sr. DCEO of Nabil Bank and Mr. Niraj Basnet (Danil), Head - SME & MF, Nabil Bank along with some of the major distributors of Unilever Nepal Limited. After MoU, Unilever provided ‘Reference Letter’ of three distributors for processing channel financing from the bank.     With this strategic partnership, the bank assures Channel Partners like distributors, dealers, and retailers of Unilever to avail Channel Financing Facility with attractive pricing and collateral support. The major attraction of this facility is that it allows distributors to receive full value of bills issued to its distributors, dealers, and retailers through bank financing. Furthermore, the registered partners can also avail of various other SME loan facilities to meet its financing requirements. Speaking about the partnership with Unilever Nepal Limited, Mr. Dhungana stated that the bank aims to support associated members of Unilever Nepal Limited in managing working capital and cash flow shortages through Channel Financing loans and various other SME loans so as to improve the sustainability of SME business.     "
2022-09-05,Nabil Bank to partner with Daraz for Daraz Dashain Dhamaka scheme; to provide up to 20% discount to its card users this festival season,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-partner-with-daraz-for-daraz-dashain-dhamaka-scheme-to-provide-up-to-20-discount-to-its-card-users-this-festival-season-2022-09-05,"Nabil Bank has partnered with Daraz for its upcoming Daraz Dashain Dhamaka campaign where customers of the bank using its cards to make payments for their purchases from Daraz beginning from Bhadra 29 will receive an attractive discount.  Customers opting to make prepayment from a Nabil debit card will receive a 15% or max Rs 2000 discount while credit card users will receive a 20% or max Rs 2500 discount, as per the media statement. The MoU regarding this discount offer was signed between the Retail Banking head of the bank Mr. Niroj Sharma and Mr. Arun Phuyal from Daraz, as per the media statement.   Nabil Bank has partnered with Daraz for its upcoming Daraz Dashain Dhamaka campaign where customers of the bank using its cards to make payments for their purchases from Daraz beginning from Bhadra 29 will receive an attractive discount.  Customers opting to make prepayment from a Nabil debit card will receive a 15% or max Rs 2000 discount while credit card users will receive a 20% or max Rs 2500 discount, as per the media statement. The MoU regarding this discount offer was signed between the Retail Banking head of the bank Mr. Niroj Sharma and Mr. Arun Phuyal from Daraz, as per the media statement.   Nabil Bank has partnered with Daraz for its upcoming Daraz Dashain Dhamaka campaign where customers of the bank using its cards to make payments for their purchases from Daraz beginning from Bhadra 29 will receive an attractive discount.  Customers opting to make prepayment from a Nabil debit card will receive a 15% or max Rs 2000 discount while credit card users will receive a 20% or max Rs 2500 discount, as per the media statement. The MoU regarding this discount offer was signed between the Retail Banking head of the bank Mr. Niroj Sharma and Mr. Arun Phuyal from Daraz, as per the media statement.   "
2022-09-02,Nabil baggs Visa Excellence Award-2022; gets felicitation for its excellent service delivery in debit card and e-commerce sector,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-baggs-visa-excellence-award-2022-gets-felicitation-for-its-excellent-service-delivery-in-debit-card-and-e-commerce-sector-2022-09-02,"Nabil Bank has bagged ‘Excellence in Consumer Debit Cards Business 2022’ and ‘Excellence in E-commerce Acquiring Business 2022 awards 2022 for its excellent growth and achievements in debit card and e-commerce acquiring business amongst all banks in Nepal. The awards were presented to Nabil during ‘Visa Leadership Conclave - Payments Innovation for Digital Nepal’ organized by Visa International at Kathmandu on August 31, 2022.  Expressing gratitude and congratulating all Nabil team members for their dedication, Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank said, “Nabil has always strived to become the first digital bank in Nepal and we are pleased to get recognition for our untiring effort.” He further said, “We have always focused and invested in promoting digital solutions for our valued customers and such recognition will further motivate us to do more on enhancing customer’s experience through digital domain.”   Nabil Bank has bagged ‘Excellence in Consumer Debit Cards Business 2022’ and ‘Excellence in E-commerce Acquiring Business 2022 awards 2022 for its excellent growth and achievements in debit card and e-commerce acquiring business amongst all banks in Nepal. The awards were presented to Nabil during ‘Visa Leadership Conclave - Payments Innovation for Digital Nepal’ organized by Visa International at Kathmandu on August 31, 2022.  Expressing gratitude and congratulating all Nabil team members for their dedication, Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank said, “Nabil has always strived to become the first digital bank in Nepal and we are pleased to get recognition for our untiring effort.” He further said, “We have always focused and invested in promoting digital solutions for our valued customers and such recognition will further motivate us to do more on enhancing customer’s experience through digital domain.”   Nabil Bank has bagged ‘Excellence in Consumer Debit Cards Business 2022’ and ‘Excellence in E-commerce Acquiring Business 2022 awards 2022 for its excellent growth and achievements in debit card and e-commerce acquiring business amongst all banks in Nepal. The awards were presented to Nabil during ‘Visa Leadership Conclave - Payments Innovation for Digital Nepal’ organized by Visa International at Kathmandu on August 31, 2022.  Expressing gratitude and congratulating all Nabil team members for their dedication, Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank said, “Nabil has always strived to become the first digital bank in Nepal and we are pleased to get recognition for our untiring effort.” He further said, “We have always focused and invested in promoting digital solutions for our valued customers and such recognition will further motivate us to do more on enhancing customer’s experience through digital domain.”   "
2022-08-31,RnD Innovative Solutions in partnership with Nabil Bank organizes dissemination program on first-ever agro loan fest held at Chitwan,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/rnd-innovative-solutions-in-partnership-with-nabil-bank-organizes-dissemination-program-on-first-ever-agro-loan-fest-held-at-chitwan-2022-08-31,"RnD Innovative Solutions, under the sponsorship of Nabil Bank, has organized report dissemination of the first-ever agro loan fest that was earlier held at Chitwan.  The event saw participation from different government line agencies, officials from Nabil Bank and from other international agencies who jointly highlighted the need for financial inclusion and banking access to the agriculture sector so as to uplift the face of the overall economy of the nation, as per the media statement. RnD Innovative Solutions, under the sponsorship of Nabil Bank, has organized report dissemination of the first-ever agro loan fest that was earlier held at Chitwan.  The event saw participation from different government line agencies, officials from Nabil Bank and from other international agencies who jointly highlighted the need for financial inclusion and banking access to the agriculture sector so as to uplift the face of the overall economy of the nation, as per the media statement. RnD Innovative Solutions, under the sponsorship of Nabil Bank, has organized report dissemination of the first-ever agro loan fest that was earlier held at Chitwan.  The event saw participation from different government line agencies, officials from Nabil Bank and from other international agencies who jointly highlighted the need for financial inclusion and banking access to the agriculture sector so as to uplift the face of the overall economy of the nation, as per the media statement. "
2022-08-29,Nabil Bank 50 thousand Units Promoter Share in Auction From Today,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-50-thousand-units-promoter-share-in-auction-from-today-2022-08-29,"The existing promoter of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is auctioning the company's promoter shares. 50,000 shares are being auctioned from today, i.e. Bhadra 13, 2079. 50,000 units promoter shares of NABIL are being auctioned. The auction is first open to existing promoters for 35 days from the day of the official notice i.e Bhadra 13 (today). Rs. 480 is the minimum bid rate for 50,000 promoter shares. If not bought by existing promoters, the public and other institutions/ companies will then be eligible to bid for the shares. NABIL has a total of 55,336,163 units promoter shares, amounting to 60% of the company's shareholding. Auction Notice   The existing promoter of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is auctioning the company's promoter shares. 50,000 shares are being auctioned from today, i.e. Bhadra 13, 2079. 50,000 units promoter shares of NABIL are being auctioned. The auction is first open to existing promoters for 35 days from the day of the official notice i.e Bhadra 13 (today). Rs. 480 is the minimum bid rate for 50,000 promoter shares. If not bought by existing promoters, the public and other institutions/ companies will then be eligible to bid for the shares. NABIL has a total of 55,336,163 units promoter shares, amounting to 60% of the company's shareholding. Auction Notice   The existing promoter of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is auctioning the company's promoter shares. 50,000 shares are being auctioned from today, i.e. Bhadra 13, 2079. 50,000 units promoter shares of NABIL are being auctioned. The auction is first open to existing promoters for 35 days from the day of the official notice i.e Bhadra 13 (today). Rs. 480 is the minimum bid rate for 50,000 promoter shares. If not bought by existing promoters, the public and other institutions/ companies will then be eligible to bid for the shares. NABIL has a total of 55,336,163 units promoter shares, amounting to 60% of the company's shareholding. Auction Notice   "
2022-08-28,Nabil Bank organizes interaction sessions with Bhaktapur-based mobile sellers and distributors; candid discussion on providing more banking services to mobile businesses concludes,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-organizes-interaction-sessions-with-bhaktapur-based-mobile-sellers-and-distributors-candid-discussion-on-providing-more-banking-services-to-mobile-businesses-concludes-2022-08-28,"Nabil Bank has organized an interactive event with the mobile shop owners, dealers and distributors in Bhaktapur.  The event was facilitated by SME loans and Microfinance department head of the bank Mr. Niroj Basnet where the event saw a candid discussion on the banking access for different mobile sellers and distributors in terms of different banking products as well as the arrangement of digital security, as per the media statement.   Nabil Bank has organized an interactive event with the mobile shop owners, dealers and distributors in Bhaktapur.  The event was facilitated by SME loans and Microfinance department head of the bank Mr. Niroj Basnet where the event saw a candid discussion on the banking access for different mobile sellers and distributors in terms of different banking products as well as the arrangement of digital security, as per the media statement.   Nabil Bank has organized an interactive event with the mobile shop owners, dealers and distributors in Bhaktapur.  The event was facilitated by SME loans and Microfinance department head of the bank Mr. Niroj Basnet where the event saw a candid discussion on the banking access for different mobile sellers and distributors in terms of different banking products as well as the arrangement of digital security, as per the media statement.   "
2022-08-24,"Nabil Bank Introduces ""Nabil Fixed Deposit Account With Lots of Benefits for the Customers; Check it Out",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-introduces-nabil-fixed-deposit-account-with-lots-of-benefits-for-the-customers-check-it-out-2022-08-24,"Nabil Bank has introduced ""Nabil Fixed Deposit Account,"" which offers a competitive interest rate, keeping in mind the needs of its customers. Customers who have a ""Nabil Dhukka Muddati Khata"" can get up to 10 times the amount they initially deposited in instalments after the designated period of time.     Nabil Bank has introduced ""Nabil Fixed Deposit Account,"" which offers a competitive interest rate, keeping in mind the needs of its customers. Customers who have a ""Nabil Dhukka Muddati Khata"" can get up to 10 times the amount they initially deposited in instalments after the designated period of time.     Nabil Bank has introduced ""Nabil Fixed Deposit Account,"" which offers a competitive interest rate, keeping in mind the needs of its customers. Customers who have a ""Nabil Dhukka Muddati Khata"" can get up to 10 times the amount they initially deposited in instalments after the designated period of time.     "
2022-08-23,What Does the Future Hold For  ATMs in Nepal as the Country Quickly Transitions to a Cashless Economy?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/what-does-the-future-hold-for-atms-in-nepal-as-the-country-quickly-transitions-to-a-cashless-economy-2022-08-23,"An ATM stands for automatic teller machine. An ATM is an electronic banking outlet that allows customers to complete basic transactions without the aid of a branch representative or teller. Anyone with a credit or debit card can access their card at most ATMs, either in Nepal or abroad. An atm card is a payment card or dedicated payment card issued by a financial institution which enables a customer to access their financial account via its and other ATMs and to make approved point of purchase retail transactions. How do card transactions work? Mr. Mohan has a Sanima bank Visa network debit card. He wants cash at the time, so he finds a Sanima bank’s atm near him. He goes there and inserts the card. As soon as he inserts the card, a computer inside the machine reads the card details and sends a request to the card company, in our case, Visa. Visa sends this request to the bank to verify the card. Now your visa requests your authentication PIN. As you insert your PIN, Visa authenticates your PIN and opens your withdrawal window. You put in some amount. Again, Visa requests from the bank that the account have that much balance in it. If you have, then it will get you the money, otherwise not. This process is almost similar to that for credit cards also. (Fun fact: the sound of money counting from an ATM machine is only the sound of the built-in speaker, not the sound of actual cash counting.) How much does it cost? It may vary from provider to provider. Banks usually pay up to 1% on debit cards and 1% to 3% on credit cards. Some amount is also levied for new card issuance, so the bank charges us 300-500 per year. Most of the amount, in this case, is sent to the specific network company, which is also an economic cost for the country because banks have to pay the provider in dollars. Is the ATM card of the future or of the past? In the long run, we will not ask this question because new technology is replacing this card technology. The new technology is QR Code Payment and Virtual Cards. QR Code technology has been growing rapidly in Nepal, India, China, and other countries in recent years. This technology is provided through mobile applications (Apps). These apps are keen to replace physical ATM card formats with QR codes and virtual cards. Esewa (Nepal), Phonepe (India), and Wechat (China) are major examples of mobile and web applications used for QR Payments. As you know, esewa is South Asia’s first payment app company, which revolutionized the payment environment in Nepal. But after demonetization in India and the development of UPI (unified payment interface) by NPCI (National Payment Corporation of India), digital payment evolved at a very fast rate, so Nepal also adopted this new wave and then ConnectIps by NCHL, Fonepay by F1soft, and Khalti by Janaki Tech, etc. emerged in the Nepali payment market, evolving and making payments easy. Nepal now has almost 50–60% of its transactions digitalized, including digital clearing of cheques and ATM cash withdrawals, and it is increasing. (Fun fact: Nepal launched its first payment app in 2009, while India followed suit in 2010.) Payment via QR Code, The Future: ""QR code"" stands for ""Quick response code."" The QR Code can be the universal payment code that helps us to remove the card and its cost. (This can also help to protect the environment from pollution.) Things that should be done to make QR Payment a Universal Payment Code: Digital economy is one of the options to develop country by reducing corruption, restrain excess printing of cash, fast economy, record of every transaction etc. in this world of technology everything is going digital so there is some risk involved such as cyber scam, online fraud etc. we have to be careful. Conclusion: ATM card is going to be past in some years at least in this part of world. An ATM stands for automatic teller machine. An ATM is an electronic banking outlet that allows customers to complete basic transactions without the aid of a branch representative or teller. Anyone with a credit or debit card can access their card at most ATMs, either in Nepal or abroad. An atm card is a payment card or dedicated payment card issued by a financial institution which enables a customer to access their financial account via its and other ATMs and to make approved point of purchase retail transactions. How do card transactions work? Mr. Mohan has a Sanima bank Visa network debit card. He wants cash at the time, so he finds a Sanima bank’s atm near him. He goes there and inserts the card. As soon as he inserts the card, a computer inside the machine reads the card details and sends a request to the card company, in our case, Visa. Visa sends this request to the bank to verify the card. Now your visa requests your authentication PIN. As you insert your PIN, Visa authenticates your PIN and opens your withdrawal window. You put in some amount. Again, Visa requests from the bank that the account have that much balance in it. If you have, then it will get you the money, otherwise not. This process is almost similar to that for credit cards also. (Fun fact: the sound of money counting from an ATM machine is only the sound of the built-in speaker, not the sound of actual cash counting.) How much does it cost? It may vary from provider to provider. Banks usually pay up to 1% on debit cards and 1% to 3% on credit cards. Some amount is also levied for new card issuance, so the bank charges us 300-500 per year. Most of the amount, in this case, is sent to the specific network company, which is also an economic cost for the country because banks have to pay the provider in dollars. Is the ATM card of the future or of the past? In the long run, we will not ask this question because new technology is replacing this card technology. The new technology is QR Code Payment and Virtual Cards. QR Code technology has been growing rapidly in Nepal, India, China, and other countries in recent years. This technology is provided through mobile applications (Apps). These apps are keen to replace physical ATM card formats with QR codes and virtual cards. Esewa (Nepal), Phonepe (India), and Wechat (China) are major examples of mobile and web applications used for QR Payments. As you know, esewa is South Asia’s first payment app company, which revolutionized the payment environment in Nepal. But after demonetization in India and the development of UPI (unified payment interface) by NPCI (National Payment Corporation of India), digital payment evolved at a very fast rate, so Nepal also adopted this new wave and then ConnectIps by NCHL, Fonepay by F1soft, and Khalti by Janaki Tech, etc. emerged in the Nepali payment market, evolving and making payments easy. Nepal now has almost 50–60% of its transactions digitalized, including digital clearing of cheques and ATM cash withdrawals, and it is increasing. (Fun fact: Nepal launched its first payment app in 2009, while India followed suit in 2010.) Payment via QR Code, The Future: ""QR code"" stands for ""Quick response code."" The QR Code can be the universal payment code that helps us to remove the card and its cost. (This can also help to protect the environment from pollution.) Things that should be done to make QR Payment a Universal Payment Code: Digital economy is one of the options to develop country by reducing corruption, restrain excess printing of cash, fast economy, record of every transaction etc. in this world of technology everything is going digital so there is some risk involved such as cyber scam, online fraud etc. we have to be careful. Conclusion: ATM card is going to be past in some years at least in this part of world. An ATM stands for automatic teller machine. An ATM is an electronic banking outlet that allows customers to complete basic transactions without the aid of a branch representative or teller. Anyone with a credit or debit card can access their card at most ATMs, either in Nepal or abroad. An atm card is a payment card or dedicated payment card issued by a financial institution which enables a customer to access their financial account via its and other ATMs and to make approved point of purchase retail transactions. How do card transactions work? Mr. Mohan has a Sanima bank Visa network debit card. He wants cash at the time, so he finds a Sanima bank’s atm near him. He goes there and inserts the card. As soon as he inserts the card, a computer inside the machine reads the card details and sends a request to the card company, in our case, Visa. Visa sends this request to the bank to verify the card. Now your visa requests your authentication PIN. As you insert your PIN, Visa authenticates your PIN and opens your withdrawal window. You put in some amount. Again, Visa requests from the bank that the account have that much balance in it. If you have, then it will get you the money, otherwise not. This process is almost similar to that for credit cards also. (Fun fact: the sound of money counting from an ATM machine is only the sound of the built-in speaker, not the sound of actual cash counting.) How much does it cost? It may vary from provider to provider. Banks usually pay up to 1% on debit cards and 1% to 3% on credit cards. Some amount is also levied for new card issuance, so the bank charges us 300-500 per year. Most of the amount, in this case, is sent to the specific network company, which is also an economic cost for the country because banks have to pay the provider in dollars. Is the ATM card of the future or of the past? In the long run, we will not ask this question because new technology is replacing this card technology. The new technology is QR Code Payment and Virtual Cards. QR Code technology has been growing rapidly in Nepal, India, China, and other countries in recent years. This technology is provided through mobile applications (Apps). These apps are keen to replace physical ATM card formats with QR codes and virtual cards. Esewa (Nepal), Phonepe (India), and Wechat (China) are major examples of mobile and web applications used for QR Payments. As you know, esewa is South Asia’s first payment app company, which revolutionized the payment environment in Nepal. But after demonetization in India and the development of UPI (unified payment interface) by NPCI (National Payment Corporation of India), digital payment evolved at a very fast rate, so Nepal also adopted this new wave and then ConnectIps by NCHL, Fonepay by F1soft, and Khalti by Janaki Tech, etc. emerged in the Nepali payment market, evolving and making payments easy. Nepal now has almost 50–60% of its transactions digitalized, including digital clearing of cheques and ATM cash withdrawals, and it is increasing. (Fun fact: Nepal launched its first payment app in 2009, while India followed suit in 2010.) Payment via QR Code, The Future: ""QR code"" stands for ""Quick response code."" The QR Code can be the universal payment code that helps us to remove the card and its cost. (This can also help to protect the environment from pollution.) Things that should be done to make QR Payment a Universal Payment Code: Digital economy is one of the options to develop country by reducing corruption, restrain excess printing of cash, fast economy, record of every transaction etc. in this world of technology everything is going digital so there is some risk involved such as cyber scam, online fraud etc. we have to be careful. Conclusion: ATM card is going to be past in some years at least in this part of world. "
2022-08-23,Nabil appoints 9 years old social worker Prensa Regmi as Brand Ambassador of Nabil Gen Alpha,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-appoints-9-years-old-social-worker-prensa-regmi-as-brand-ambassador-of-nabil-gen-alpha-2022-08-23,"Nabil Bank has appointed a young social worker and influencer Prensa Regmi as the Brand Ambassador for a new digi product Nabil Gen Alpha. Nabil Gen Alpha is designed targeting to kids aged below 18 years and their parents where parents can create, set and assign tasks to their kids for earning points after evaluating their task for the first time in Nepal.  Nabil is delighted to welcome Regmi as a brand ambassador of the product. A nine-year old Regmi started her social work at the early age of eight by distributing surgical masks during the pandemic. A permanent resident of Birauta, Pokhara, recently bagged Global Child Prodigy Awards 2022 in Dubai.  “For the first time in Nepal, we have come up with this unique digital product that guide, motivate and encourage kids through app experience,” said Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, CEO of Nabil Bank. “Prensa being a social worker and influencer of our target group, we found her to be the right fit for this Gen Alpha product,” he added. Stating that the product is targeted to tech savvy new generation kids, Dhungana said, “We develop an app where kids can earn points to the task assigned by their parents. This way kids can earn money to their linked account while learning life skills and household chores.” He further said that the app will help kids to learn about finances, importance of savings and learn to budget and grow to understand the difference between wants and needs by spending wisely. The bank is planning to launch the product on September.   Nabil Bank has appointed a young social worker and influencer Prensa Regmi as the Brand Ambassador for a new digi product Nabil Gen Alpha. Nabil Gen Alpha is designed targeting to kids aged below 18 years and their parents where parents can create, set and assign tasks to their kids for earning points after evaluating their task for the first time in Nepal.  Nabil is delighted to welcome Regmi as a brand ambassador of the product. A nine-year old Regmi started her social work at the early age of eight by distributing surgical masks during the pandemic. A permanent resident of Birauta, Pokhara, recently bagged Global Child Prodigy Awards 2022 in Dubai.  “For the first time in Nepal, we have come up with this unique digital product that guide, motivate and encourage kids through app experience,” said Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, CEO of Nabil Bank. “Prensa being a social worker and influencer of our target group, we found her to be the right fit for this Gen Alpha product,” he added. Stating that the product is targeted to tech savvy new generation kids, Dhungana said, “We develop an app where kids can earn points to the task assigned by their parents. This way kids can earn money to their linked account while learning life skills and household chores.” He further said that the app will help kids to learn about finances, importance of savings and learn to budget and grow to understand the difference between wants and needs by spending wisely. The bank is planning to launch the product on September.   Nabil Bank has appointed a young social worker and influencer Prensa Regmi as the Brand Ambassador for a new digi product Nabil Gen Alpha. Nabil Gen Alpha is designed targeting to kids aged below 18 years and their parents where parents can create, set and assign tasks to their kids for earning points after evaluating their task for the first time in Nepal.  Nabil is delighted to welcome Regmi as a brand ambassador of the product. A nine-year old Regmi started her social work at the early age of eight by distributing surgical masks during the pandemic. A permanent resident of Birauta, Pokhara, recently bagged Global Child Prodigy Awards 2022 in Dubai.  “For the first time in Nepal, we have come up with this unique digital product that guide, motivate and encourage kids through app experience,” said Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, CEO of Nabil Bank. “Prensa being a social worker and influencer of our target group, we found her to be the right fit for this Gen Alpha product,” he added. Stating that the product is targeted to tech savvy new generation kids, Dhungana said, “We develop an app where kids can earn points to the task assigned by their parents. This way kids can earn money to their linked account while learning life skills and household chores.” He further said that the app will help kids to learn about finances, importance of savings and learn to budget and grow to understand the difference between wants and needs by spending wisely. The bank is planning to launch the product on September.   "
2022-08-17,Nabil Bank launches Nabil foneloan - QR Merchant for the first time in Nepal; QR merchants can avail instant digital loan,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-nabil-foneloan-qr-merchant-for-the-first-time-in-nepal-qr-merchants-can-avail-instant-digital-loan-2022-08-17,"Nabil Bank has launched digital lending facility to QR merchants under its new scheme called Nabil foneloan – QR Merchant for the first time in Nepal. Any QR Merchants registered under sole proprietorship can avail digital loans instantly through Nabil SmartBank without any hassle of paperwork and collateral.  Nabil Bank launch this lending facility in collaboration with UNCDF to facilitate small and medium enterprises (SMEs) run by youth and women entrepreneurs and encourage them to use digital banking. “This is totally a new digital loan service where we aim to motivate women and youth led small and medium enterprises to use digital banking and avail this facility to expand their businesses,” said Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer, Nabil Bank. Stating that this digital loan facility is hassle free, he said, “Eligible merchants can process the loan without visiting the bank and collateral.” He further said that this product aims to reach to the unbanked population and mark a milestone in increasing digital financial inclusion.  According to the bank, the QR Merchants must be registered as sole proprietorship with Nabil Bank, subscribed to Nabil SmartBank, at least have five QR transactions to be conducted during the previous months having at least Rs. 10,000 of transaction through QR and at least have one transaction per week in last 4 consecutive weeks to be eligible for Nabil foneloan. The eligible QR Merchant will receive notification of eligible loan amount through Nabil SmartBank and proceed further through the mobile app. In the launching phase, Nabil has limited the Rs. 100,000 for a month’s period whereas the bank is planning to extend the amount and duration in near future. With the introduction of this lending facility, the bank has taken yet another step in championing digital services to customers across the country. The Bank believes this product will be a milestone in digital banking in the Nepalese banking industry, and will encourage small businesses to transact digitally. Earlier Nabil Bank had also launched Nabil foneloan, a short-term pre-approved digital lending facility, that can be availed by salaried individuals through Nabil SmartBank. Nabil Bank has launched digital lending facility to QR merchants under its new scheme called Nabil foneloan – QR Merchant for the first time in Nepal. Any QR Merchants registered under sole proprietorship can avail digital loans instantly through Nabil SmartBank without any hassle of paperwork and collateral.  Nabil Bank launch this lending facility in collaboration with UNCDF to facilitate small and medium enterprises (SMEs) run by youth and women entrepreneurs and encourage them to use digital banking. “This is totally a new digital loan service where we aim to motivate women and youth led small and medium enterprises to use digital banking and avail this facility to expand their businesses,” said Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer, Nabil Bank. Stating that this digital loan facility is hassle free, he said, “Eligible merchants can process the loan without visiting the bank and collateral.” He further said that this product aims to reach to the unbanked population and mark a milestone in increasing digital financial inclusion.  According to the bank, the QR Merchants must be registered as sole proprietorship with Nabil Bank, subscribed to Nabil SmartBank, at least have five QR transactions to be conducted during the previous months having at least Rs. 10,000 of transaction through QR and at least have one transaction per week in last 4 consecutive weeks to be eligible for Nabil foneloan. The eligible QR Merchant will receive notification of eligible loan amount through Nabil SmartBank and proceed further through the mobile app. In the launching phase, Nabil has limited the Rs. 100,000 for a month’s period whereas the bank is planning to extend the amount and duration in near future. With the introduction of this lending facility, the bank has taken yet another step in championing digital services to customers across the country. The Bank believes this product will be a milestone in digital banking in the Nepalese banking industry, and will encourage small businesses to transact digitally. Earlier Nabil Bank had also launched Nabil foneloan, a short-term pre-approved digital lending facility, that can be availed by salaried individuals through Nabil SmartBank. Nabil Bank has launched digital lending facility to QR merchants under its new scheme called Nabil foneloan – QR Merchant for the first time in Nepal. Any QR Merchants registered under sole proprietorship can avail digital loans instantly through Nabil SmartBank without any hassle of paperwork and collateral.  Nabil Bank launch this lending facility in collaboration with UNCDF to facilitate small and medium enterprises (SMEs) run by youth and women entrepreneurs and encourage them to use digital banking. “This is totally a new digital loan service where we aim to motivate women and youth led small and medium enterprises to use digital banking and avail this facility to expand their businesses,” said Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, Chief Executive Officer, Nabil Bank. Stating that this digital loan facility is hassle free, he said, “Eligible merchants can process the loan without visiting the bank and collateral.” He further said that this product aims to reach to the unbanked population and mark a milestone in increasing digital financial inclusion.  According to the bank, the QR Merchants must be registered as sole proprietorship with Nabil Bank, subscribed to Nabil SmartBank, at least have five QR transactions to be conducted during the previous months having at least Rs. 10,000 of transaction through QR and at least have one transaction per week in last 4 consecutive weeks to be eligible for Nabil foneloan. The eligible QR Merchant will receive notification of eligible loan amount through Nabil SmartBank and proceed further through the mobile app. In the launching phase, Nabil has limited the Rs. 100,000 for a month’s period whereas the bank is planning to extend the amount and duration in near future. With the introduction of this lending facility, the bank has taken yet another step in championing digital services to customers across the country. The Bank believes this product will be a milestone in digital banking in the Nepalese banking industry, and will encourage small businesses to transact digitally. Earlier Nabil Bank had also launched Nabil foneloan, a short-term pre-approved digital lending facility, that can be availed by salaried individuals through Nabil SmartBank. "
2022-08-15,Nabil Bank organizes financial literacy event and digital banking awareness at Khokana; makes local farmers aware of different banking services,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-organizes-financial-literacy-event-and-digital-banking-awareness-at-khokana-makes-local-farmers-aware-of-different-banking-services-2022-08-15,"Nabil Bank has organized a financial literacy event and digital banking awareness at Khokana of Kathmandu on Shrawan 29, 2079 where the bank sensitized the locals about the necessity of engaging with the banks and utilizing different digital banking channels.  The event was attended by hundreds of locals, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has organized a financial literacy event and digital banking awareness at Khokana of Kathmandu on Shrawan 29, 2079 where the bank sensitized the locals about the necessity of engaging with the banks and utilizing different digital banking channels.  The event was attended by hundreds of locals, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has organized a financial literacy event and digital banking awareness at Khokana of Kathmandu on Shrawan 29, 2079 where the bank sensitized the locals about the necessity of engaging with the banks and utilizing different digital banking channels.  The event was attended by hundreds of locals, as per the media statement. "
2022-08-14,Nabil Bank Urges Shareholders of Former Nepal Bangladesh Bank and United Finance to Claim Due Dividend,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-urges-shareholders-of-former-nepal-bangladesh-bank-and-united-finance-to-claim-due-dividend-2022-08-14,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published a very important notice to the shareholders of former (Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited and United Finance Limited) to collect uncollected due dividend passed by various general meetings. Even after 5 years of dividend distribution some of the shareholders haven't collected the dividend from the bank yet. Investors who haven't claimed the dividend should present their share certificate and proof of identity to the company's share department to claim their dividend at Nabil Investment Banking Limited, Naxal, Narayanchaur, Kathmandu along with the copies of the necessary documents to receive the due dividend. Otherwise, according to section 183 of the Companies Act, 2063, the uncollected due dividend will be deposited in the ""Investor Protection Fund"". Notice Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published a very important notice to the shareholders of former (Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited and United Finance Limited) to collect uncollected due dividend passed by various general meetings. Even after 5 years of dividend distribution some of the shareholders haven't collected the dividend from the bank yet. Investors who haven't claimed the dividend should present their share certificate and proof of identity to the company's share department to claim their dividend at Nabil Investment Banking Limited, Naxal, Narayanchaur, Kathmandu along with the copies of the necessary documents to receive the due dividend. Otherwise, according to section 183 of the Companies Act, 2063, the uncollected due dividend will be deposited in the ""Investor Protection Fund"". Notice Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published a very important notice to the shareholders of former (Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited and United Finance Limited) to collect uncollected due dividend passed by various general meetings. Even after 5 years of dividend distribution some of the shareholders haven't collected the dividend from the bank yet. Investors who haven't claimed the dividend should present their share certificate and proof of identity to the company's share department to claim their dividend at Nabil Investment Banking Limited, Naxal, Narayanchaur, Kathmandu along with the copies of the necessary documents to receive the due dividend. Otherwise, according to section 183 of the Companies Act, 2063, the uncollected due dividend will be deposited in the ""Investor Protection Fund"". Notice "
2022-08-07,Amid Liquidity Crunch And Low Credit Expansion Commercial Banks Reports Satisfactory Profit Growth In FY 78/79; A Summarised Snapshot of the Most Important Fundamentals,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/amid-liquidity-crunch-and-low-credit-expansion-commercial-banks-reports-satisfactory-profit-growth-in-fy-7879-a-summarised-snapshot-of-the-most-important-fundamentals-2022-08-07,"Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the Lower Credit Expansion, Liquidity Shortage, Higher Treasury Bill rates, and inflation rates, Banks have reported improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter. Keeping all the speculation aside, in this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks as of Q4 of Fiscal year 2078/79 and doing a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. Profit for the period: The Commercial Banks' net profit rises by 23.09% in FY 2078/79 from Rs 60.77 Arba in the last fiscal year to Rs 74.80 Arba in this fiscal year. As per the net profit of the fourth quarter of FY 2078/79, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs. 5.21 Arba with a growth of 37.38% as compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) also reported the same profit (Less than RBB by a few lakhs), however, it reported a growth of 25%, hence it stands in the second position to accumulate higher profits for the fourth quarter. In the third position, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a net profit of Rs 4.97 Arba. Nabil Bank recently acquired Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited. Likewise, the bank with the least net profit is Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 1.36 Arba. The bank was recently acquired by Prabhu Bank Limited (the Acquisition process is in the process). The industry average of net profit of the 26 commercial banks stands at Rs 2.88 Arba. All commercial banks except 3 banks i.e Agriculture Development Bank, Himalayan Bank Limited, and Sanima Bank Limited have declined their net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year.  Profit for the period:  Distributable Profit: As per the distributable profit of the fourth quarter of 2078/79, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  is in the lead with a profit of Rs 9.12 Arba. Similarly,  Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 3.91 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has a net profit of Rs.3.90  Arba. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has reported the lowest distributable profit among all the banks at Rs. 0.91 Arba. Similarly, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the highest distributable profit per share of Rs 41.15, and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest distributable profit per share of Rs 39.94.  *Distributable Profit includes last year's retained earnings. * Nabil Bank Distributable Profit includes capital adjustment reserve from Business Combination. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 23.80 Arba capital and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with Rs. 22.83 Arba paid-up capital.   *ADBL Capital includes Rs 5.43 Arba irredeemable non-cumulative preference shares. Reserve and surplus: With an industry average of Rs 10.03 Arba, 8 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 10.03 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.60 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 29.75 Arba, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained the second position with Rs 21.38 Arba reserve and surplus fund and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 18.54 Arba  *Reserve and Surplus amounts include the amount of Share Premium, Retained Earnings, and Reserve. Deposits from Customers: On an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.71 Kharba as a deposit. Only 11 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the fourth quarter of FY 2078/79, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 3.26 Kharba, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.89 Kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.77 kharba respectively. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 93.72 Arba.  Loans and advances to Customers: The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 3.01 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.58 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan portfolio of Rs 2.52 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 79.17 Arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.53 Kharba. 9 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.53 Kharba.  Net Interest Income: Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 11.77 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 10.74 Arba and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL)  with an income of Rs 9.67 Arba.  Provisions for the period (Impairment/Reversal): Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 4.28 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 1.62 Arba followed by Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) with a total of Rs. 69 crores. * - Reversal and + Provision  Major indicators: Earnings per share: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 39.13 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 34.90 per share. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 26.89 per share. Laxmi Bank Limited (LBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 13.88 per share.  The average EPS of 26 commercial banks stands at Rs 21.05. 11 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 248.42 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Everest Bank Limited (EBL) is in the second position with Rs 239.71. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q4 of FY 2078/79 i.e. Rs 230.30. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 127.64 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 173.03 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. P/E Ratio: Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL)  has the least PE ratio of 9.74 times. It is followed by Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) with a PE ratio of 9.91 times. 18 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 14.45 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios but rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  Non-Performing Loan: In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) reported the lowest NPL of 0.15% in terms of asset quality. SBI is followed by  Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.24%.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) has reported the highest NPL of 2%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Nepal credit & Commerce Bank Limited (NCCB) seems to have the highest NPL of 1.93%.   Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR): In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.34%. This is followed by Civil Bank Nepal Limited (CBL) with a CAR of 16.05%.  Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the Lower Credit Expansion, Liquidity Shortage, Higher Treasury Bill rates, and inflation rates, Banks have reported improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter. Keeping all the speculation aside, in this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks as of Q4 of Fiscal year 2078/79 and doing a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. Profit for the period: The Commercial Banks' net profit rises by 23.09% in FY 2078/79 from Rs 60.77 Arba in the last fiscal year to Rs 74.80 Arba in this fiscal year. As per the net profit of the fourth quarter of FY 2078/79, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs. 5.21 Arba with a growth of 37.38% as compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) also reported the same profit (Less than RBB by a few lakhs), however, it reported a growth of 25%, hence it stands in the second position to accumulate higher profits for the fourth quarter. In the third position, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a net profit of Rs 4.97 Arba. Nabil Bank recently acquired Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited. Likewise, the bank with the least net profit is Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 1.36 Arba. The bank was recently acquired by Prabhu Bank Limited (the Acquisition process is in the process). The industry average of net profit of the 26 commercial banks stands at Rs 2.88 Arba. All commercial banks except 3 banks i.e Agriculture Development Bank, Himalayan Bank Limited, and Sanima Bank Limited have declined their net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year.  Profit for the period:  Distributable Profit: As per the distributable profit of the fourth quarter of 2078/79, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  is in the lead with a profit of Rs 9.12 Arba. Similarly,  Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 3.91 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has a net profit of Rs.3.90  Arba. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has reported the lowest distributable profit among all the banks at Rs. 0.91 Arba. Similarly, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the highest distributable profit per share of Rs 41.15, and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest distributable profit per share of Rs 39.94.  *Distributable Profit includes last year's retained earnings. * Nabil Bank Distributable Profit includes capital adjustment reserve from Business Combination. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 23.80 Arba capital and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with Rs. 22.83 Arba paid-up capital.   *ADBL Capital includes Rs 5.43 Arba irredeemable non-cumulative preference shares. Reserve and surplus: With an industry average of Rs 10.03 Arba, 8 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 10.03 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.60 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 29.75 Arba, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained the second position with Rs 21.38 Arba reserve and surplus fund and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 18.54 Arba  *Reserve and Surplus amounts include the amount of Share Premium, Retained Earnings, and Reserve. Deposits from Customers: On an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.71 Kharba as a deposit. Only 11 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the fourth quarter of FY 2078/79, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 3.26 Kharba, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.89 Kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.77 kharba respectively. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 93.72 Arba.  Loans and advances to Customers: The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 3.01 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.58 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan portfolio of Rs 2.52 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 79.17 Arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.53 Kharba. 9 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.53 Kharba.  Net Interest Income: Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 11.77 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 10.74 Arba and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL)  with an income of Rs 9.67 Arba.  Provisions for the period (Impairment/Reversal): Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 4.28 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 1.62 Arba followed by Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) with a total of Rs. 69 crores. * - Reversal and + Provision  Major indicators: Earnings per share: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 39.13 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 34.90 per share. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 26.89 per share. Laxmi Bank Limited (LBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 13.88 per share.  The average EPS of 26 commercial banks stands at Rs 21.05. 11 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 248.42 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Everest Bank Limited (EBL) is in the second position with Rs 239.71. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q4 of FY 2078/79 i.e. Rs 230.30. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 127.64 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 173.03 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. P/E Ratio: Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL)  has the least PE ratio of 9.74 times. It is followed by Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) with a PE ratio of 9.91 times. 18 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 14.45 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios but rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  Non-Performing Loan: In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) reported the lowest NPL of 0.15% in terms of asset quality. SBI is followed by  Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.24%.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) has reported the highest NPL of 2%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Nepal credit & Commerce Bank Limited (NCCB) seems to have the highest NPL of 1.93%.   Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR): In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.34%. This is followed by Civil Bank Nepal Limited (CBL) with a CAR of 16.05%.  Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the Lower Credit Expansion, Liquidity Shortage, Higher Treasury Bill rates, and inflation rates, Banks have reported improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter. Keeping all the speculation aside, in this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks as of Q4 of Fiscal year 2078/79 and doing a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. Profit for the period: The Commercial Banks' net profit rises by 23.09% in FY 2078/79 from Rs 60.77 Arba in the last fiscal year to Rs 74.80 Arba in this fiscal year. As per the net profit of the fourth quarter of FY 2078/79, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs. 5.21 Arba with a growth of 37.38% as compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) also reported the same profit (Less than RBB by a few lakhs), however, it reported a growth of 25%, hence it stands in the second position to accumulate higher profits for the fourth quarter. In the third position, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a net profit of Rs 4.97 Arba. Nabil Bank recently acquired Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited. Likewise, the bank with the least net profit is Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 1.36 Arba. The bank was recently acquired by Prabhu Bank Limited (the Acquisition process is in the process). The industry average of net profit of the 26 commercial banks stands at Rs 2.88 Arba. All commercial banks except 3 banks i.e Agriculture Development Bank, Himalayan Bank Limited, and Sanima Bank Limited have declined their net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year.  Profit for the period:  Distributable Profit: As per the distributable profit of the fourth quarter of 2078/79, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  is in the lead with a profit of Rs 9.12 Arba. Similarly,  Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 3.91 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has a net profit of Rs.3.90  Arba. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has reported the lowest distributable profit among all the banks at Rs. 0.91 Arba. Similarly, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the highest distributable profit per share of Rs 41.15, and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest distributable profit per share of Rs 39.94.  *Distributable Profit includes last year's retained earnings. * Nabil Bank Distributable Profit includes capital adjustment reserve from Business Combination. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 23.80 Arba capital and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with Rs. 22.83 Arba paid-up capital.   *ADBL Capital includes Rs 5.43 Arba irredeemable non-cumulative preference shares. Reserve and surplus: With an industry average of Rs 10.03 Arba, 8 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 10.03 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.60 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 29.75 Arba, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained the second position with Rs 21.38 Arba reserve and surplus fund and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 18.54 Arba  *Reserve and Surplus amounts include the amount of Share Premium, Retained Earnings, and Reserve. Deposits from Customers: On an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.71 Kharba as a deposit. Only 11 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the fourth quarter of FY 2078/79, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 3.26 Kharba, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.89 Kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.77 kharba respectively. Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 93.72 Arba.  Loans and advances to Customers: The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 3.01 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.58 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan portfolio of Rs 2.52 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 79.17 Arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.53 Kharba. 9 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.53 Kharba.  Net Interest Income: Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 11.77 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 10.74 Arba and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL)  with an income of Rs 9.67 Arba.  Provisions for the period (Impairment/Reversal): Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 4.28 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 1.62 Arba followed by Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) with a total of Rs. 69 crores. * - Reversal and + Provision  Major indicators: Earnings per share: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 39.13 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 34.90 per share. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 26.89 per share. Laxmi Bank Limited (LBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 13.88 per share.  The average EPS of 26 commercial banks stands at Rs 21.05. 11 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 248.42 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Everest Bank Limited (EBL) is in the second position with Rs 239.71. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q4 of FY 2078/79 i.e. Rs 230.30. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 127.64 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 173.03 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. P/E Ratio: Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL)  has the least PE ratio of 9.74 times. It is followed by Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) with a PE ratio of 9.91 times. 18 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 14.45 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios but rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  Non-Performing Loan: In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) reported the lowest NPL of 0.15% in terms of asset quality. SBI is followed by  Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.24%.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBBL) has reported the highest NPL of 2%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Nepal credit & Commerce Bank Limited (NCCB) seems to have the highest NPL of 1.93%.   Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR): In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.34%. This is followed by Civil Bank Nepal Limited (CBL) with a CAR of 16.05%.  "
2022-08-05,Nabil Bank's Q4 After Successful Acquisition of NBB - Net Profit Rises to Rs 4.97 Arba; Distributable Profit Stands at Massive Rs 9.12 Arba,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-q4-after-successful-acquisition-of-nbb-net-profit-rises-to-rs-497-arba-distributable-profit-stands-at-massive-rs-912-arba-2022-08-05,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published a fourth-quarter report for FY 2078/79 after the successful acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank with 9.83% growth in net profit. The bank’s profit has increased from Rs. 4.52 arba in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2077/78 to Rs 4.97 arba in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2078/79. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 9.12 Arba (Including Rs 5.74 Arba as Capital Adjustment Reserve from Business Combination) as distributable profit after Regulatory Adjustments and PL appropriations which can be utilized in distributing dividends to its shareholders. The existing capital adequacy of  Nabil Bank is 13.44% and the Credit to Deposit (CD) ratio of the bank is 89.79 for the fiscal end of 78/79. The bank has deposits from customers of Rs 3.26 Kharba and loans and advances to customers stand at Rs 3.01 Kharba until the fourth quarter. The net interest income of the bank has increased by 16.79% to Rs 9.43 Arba from Rs 8.07 arba in the corresponding quarter. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs 22.83 Arba with Rs 29.75 Arba as its reserve and surplus. In the fourth quarter, the EPS of the bank stands at Rs 21.78. The net worth per share stands at Rs 230.30 and PE ratio stands at 37.83 times. Details Regarding The Press Release Of Nabil Bank’s Proposed Acquisition Of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Major Highlights: Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published a fourth-quarter report for FY 2078/79 after the successful acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank with 9.83% growth in net profit. The bank’s profit has increased from Rs. 4.52 arba in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2077/78 to Rs 4.97 arba in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2078/79. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 9.12 Arba (Including Rs 5.74 Arba as Capital Adjustment Reserve from Business Combination) as distributable profit after Regulatory Adjustments and PL appropriations which can be utilized in distributing dividends to its shareholders. The existing capital adequacy of  Nabil Bank is 13.44% and the Credit to Deposit (CD) ratio of the bank is 89.79 for the fiscal end of 78/79. The bank has deposits from customers of Rs 3.26 Kharba and loans and advances to customers stand at Rs 3.01 Kharba until the fourth quarter. The net interest income of the bank has increased by 16.79% to Rs 9.43 Arba from Rs 8.07 arba in the corresponding quarter. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs 22.83 Arba with Rs 29.75 Arba as its reserve and surplus. In the fourth quarter, the EPS of the bank stands at Rs 21.78. The net worth per share stands at Rs 230.30 and PE ratio stands at 37.83 times. Details Regarding The Press Release Of Nabil Bank’s Proposed Acquisition Of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Major Highlights: Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published a fourth-quarter report for FY 2078/79 after the successful acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank with 9.83% growth in net profit. The bank’s profit has increased from Rs. 4.52 arba in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2077/78 to Rs 4.97 arba in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2078/79. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 9.12 Arba (Including Rs 5.74 Arba as Capital Adjustment Reserve from Business Combination) as distributable profit after Regulatory Adjustments and PL appropriations which can be utilized in distributing dividends to its shareholders. The existing capital adequacy of  Nabil Bank is 13.44% and the Credit to Deposit (CD) ratio of the bank is 89.79 for the fiscal end of 78/79. The bank has deposits from customers of Rs 3.26 Kharba and loans and advances to customers stand at Rs 3.01 Kharba until the fourth quarter. The net interest income of the bank has increased by 16.79% to Rs 9.43 Arba from Rs 8.07 arba in the corresponding quarter. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs 22.83 Arba with Rs 29.75 Arba as its reserve and surplus. In the fourth quarter, the EPS of the bank stands at Rs 21.78. The net worth per share stands at Rs 230.30 and PE ratio stands at 37.83 times. Details Regarding The Press Release Of Nabil Bank’s Proposed Acquisition Of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Major Highlights: "
2022-08-04,Nabil Bank organizes financial literacy event at Kankai NagarPalika; makes 150 plus youths aware of digital banking and financial access via its Digo banking scheme,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-organizes-financial-literacy-event-at-kankai-nagarpalika-makes-150-plus-youths-aware-of-digital-banking-and-financial-access-via-its-digo-banking-scheme-2022-08-04,"Nabil Bank has organized a financial literacy event at Kankai NagarPalika on Shrawan 18, 2079 where the bank sensitized the youths about the necessity of engaging with the banks and utilizing different digital banking channels.  The event was attended by more than 150 youths of the locality which was facilitated by head of Nagar Palika Mr. Rajendra Kumar Pokharel, Deputy mayor Ms. Asha Sibakoti, Mechi head of the bank Mr. Saroj Sapkota, Digo banking head of Nabil bank Mr. Lila Prasad Ojha, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has organized a financial literacy event at Kankai NagarPalika on Shrawan 18, 2079 where the bank sensitized the youths about the necessity of engaging with the banks and utilizing different digital banking channels.  The event was attended by more than 150 youths of the locality which was facilitated by head of Nagar Palika Mr. Rajendra Kumar Pokharel, Deputy mayor Ms. Asha Sibakoti, Mechi head of the bank Mr. Saroj Sapkota, Digo banking head of Nabil bank Mr. Lila Prasad Ojha, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has organized a financial literacy event at Kankai NagarPalika on Shrawan 18, 2079 where the bank sensitized the youths about the necessity of engaging with the banks and utilizing different digital banking channels.  The event was attended by more than 150 youths of the locality which was facilitated by head of Nagar Palika Mr. Rajendra Kumar Pokharel, Deputy mayor Ms. Asha Sibakoti, Mechi head of the bank Mr. Saroj Sapkota, Digo banking head of Nabil bank Mr. Lila Prasad Ojha, as per the media statement. "
2022-08-03,"NRB Has Amended and Added Various Facilities To the 'A', 'B' and 'C' Category Banks and Financial Institutions; List of Major Highlights of NRB Circular",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nrb-has-amended-and-added-various-facilities-to-the-a-b-and-c-category-banks-and-financial-institutions-list-of-major-highlights-of-nrb-circular-2022-08-03,"Nepal Rastra Bank Act, 2058 has been amended/added as per the attached table in the integrated directive issued to the ""A"", ""B"" and ""C"" category banks and financial institutions licensed by the central bank.  MAJOR HIGHLIGHTS:  Additionally, through the monetary policy of the current financial year, Governor Maha Prasad Adhikari amended the existing 4/12 provision for margin loans. To implement the revised system, the Central Bank has issued a unified guideline on Wednesday. Now you can take a loan of more than four crore rupees from any bank and financial institution by keeping shares as collateral. However, it has been stipulated that the total loan taken by the debtor from various banks by keeping the shares as mortgage should not exceed 12 crore in total. Now borrowers do not have to go to three banks to get a loan of 12 million by putting shares as collateral. They will be able to take a loan of up to 12 crore rupees from a single bank. However, the share mortgage loan cannot be more than 12 crore rupees. Along with the single customer loan limit, the Rastra Bank has also reduced the risk burden to 100 percent for margin loans of less than 25 lakh rupees through monetary policy. According to the previous arrangement, risk weightage ratio was 150 percent of the resulting loans. Likewise, Nepal Rastra Bank has said that the counter cyclical buffer will be applied according to the capital education framework 2015. On Wednesday, Rastra Bank issued integrated instructions to banks and financial institutions of categories A, B and C and said that the Capital Adequacy Framework will be implemented in accordance with the provisions made in 2015. Similarly, Private banks will get more benefits if they participate in the process of merger, merger and acquisition and make an integrated transaction by the end of Poush. NRB has amended the Integrated Directive 2078 and made such provision. According to central Bank, if they participate in the process of merger, merger and acquisition and do integrated business before the end of Poush, they will get 5 different facilities for one more year.   Nepal Rastra Bank Act, 2058 has been amended/added as per the attached table in the integrated directive issued to the ""A"", ""B"" and ""C"" category banks and financial institutions licensed by the central bank.  MAJOR HIGHLIGHTS:  Additionally, through the monetary policy of the current financial year, Governor Maha Prasad Adhikari amended the existing 4/12 provision for margin loans. To implement the revised system, the Central Bank has issued a unified guideline on Wednesday. Now you can take a loan of more than four crore rupees from any bank and financial institution by keeping shares as collateral. However, it has been stipulated that the total loan taken by the debtor from various banks by keeping the shares as mortgage should not exceed 12 crore in total. Now borrowers do not have to go to three banks to get a loan of 12 million by putting shares as collateral. They will be able to take a loan of up to 12 crore rupees from a single bank. However, the share mortgage loan cannot be more than 12 crore rupees. Along with the single customer loan limit, the Rastra Bank has also reduced the risk burden to 100 percent for margin loans of less than 25 lakh rupees through monetary policy. According to the previous arrangement, risk weightage ratio was 150 percent of the resulting loans. Likewise, Nepal Rastra Bank has said that the counter cyclical buffer will be applied according to the capital education framework 2015. On Wednesday, Rastra Bank issued integrated instructions to banks and financial institutions of categories A, B and C and said that the Capital Adequacy Framework will be implemented in accordance with the provisions made in 2015. Similarly, Private banks will get more benefits if they participate in the process of merger, merger and acquisition and make an integrated transaction by the end of Poush. NRB has amended the Integrated Directive 2078 and made such provision. According to central Bank, if they participate in the process of merger, merger and acquisition and do integrated business before the end of Poush, they will get 5 different facilities for one more year.   Nepal Rastra Bank Act, 2058 has been amended/added as per the attached table in the integrated directive issued to the ""A"", ""B"" and ""C"" category banks and financial institutions licensed by the central bank.  MAJOR HIGHLIGHTS:  Additionally, through the monetary policy of the current financial year, Governor Maha Prasad Adhikari amended the existing 4/12 provision for margin loans. To implement the revised system, the Central Bank has issued a unified guideline on Wednesday. Now you can take a loan of more than four crore rupees from any bank and financial institution by keeping shares as collateral. However, it has been stipulated that the total loan taken by the debtor from various banks by keeping the shares as mortgage should not exceed 12 crore in total. Now borrowers do not have to go to three banks to get a loan of 12 million by putting shares as collateral. They will be able to take a loan of up to 12 crore rupees from a single bank. However, the share mortgage loan cannot be more than 12 crore rupees. Along with the single customer loan limit, the Rastra Bank has also reduced the risk burden to 100 percent for margin loans of less than 25 lakh rupees through monetary policy. According to the previous arrangement, risk weightage ratio was 150 percent of the resulting loans. Likewise, Nepal Rastra Bank has said that the counter cyclical buffer will be applied according to the capital education framework 2015. On Wednesday, Rastra Bank issued integrated instructions to banks and financial institutions of categories A, B and C and said that the Capital Adequacy Framework will be implemented in accordance with the provisions made in 2015. Similarly, Private banks will get more benefits if they participate in the process of merger, merger and acquisition and make an integrated transaction by the end of Poush. NRB has amended the Integrated Directive 2078 and made such provision. According to central Bank, if they participate in the process of merger, merger and acquisition and do integrated business before the end of Poush, they will get 5 different facilities for one more year.   "
2022-08-03,Nabil Bank Acquired Nepal Bangladesh Bank 4.33 Crore Shares Listed in NEPSE For Trading,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-acquired-nepal-bangladesh-bank-433-crore-shares-listed-in-nepse-for-trading-2022-08-03,"4,33,67,219 additional shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) have now been listed in NEPSE. Nabil Bank had acquired Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) with a swap ratio of 100:43. Thus, the additional shares after the acquisition are now listed in NEPSE. NBB total listed shares were 10,08,53,998 units.  After a successful acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank, NABIL has commenced the joint transaction in the name of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL ) from Ashad 28, 2079. The paid-up capital of Nabil Bank has increased to Rs. 22.83 Arba from Rs. 18.49 Arba. As per the media statement, Nabil Bank now has core capital of Rs 56.02 arba, deposits of Rs 3.28 kharba, and loans of Rs 3.08 kharba, 267 branches, 274 ATM outlets. 4,33,67,219 additional shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) have now been listed in NEPSE. Nabil Bank had acquired Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) with a swap ratio of 100:43. Thus, the additional shares after the acquisition are now listed in NEPSE. NBB total listed shares were 10,08,53,998 units.  After a successful acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank, NABIL has commenced the joint transaction in the name of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL ) from Ashad 28, 2079. The paid-up capital of Nabil Bank has increased to Rs. 22.83 Arba from Rs. 18.49 Arba. As per the media statement, Nabil Bank now has core capital of Rs 56.02 arba, deposits of Rs 3.28 kharba, and loans of Rs 3.08 kharba, 267 branches, 274 ATM outlets. 4,33,67,219 additional shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) have now been listed in NEPSE. Nabil Bank had acquired Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) with a swap ratio of 100:43. Thus, the additional shares after the acquisition are now listed in NEPSE. NBB total listed shares were 10,08,53,998 units.  After a successful acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank, NABIL has commenced the joint transaction in the name of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL ) from Ashad 28, 2079. The paid-up capital of Nabil Bank has increased to Rs. 22.83 Arba from Rs. 18.49 Arba. As per the media statement, Nabil Bank now has core capital of Rs 56.02 arba, deposits of Rs 3.28 kharba, and loans of Rs 3.08 kharba, 267 branches, 274 ATM outlets. "
2022-07-28,Nabil Bank calls application for Nabil SSE Fellowship Batch 2; partners with TUSOM to provide 6 months long mentorship to budding entrepreneurs,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-calls-application-for-nabil-sse-fellowship-batch-2-partners-with-tusom-to-provide-6-months-long-mentorship-to-budding-entrepreneurs-2022-07-28,"Nabil Bank, in association with TUSOM and School of Social Entrepreneurship, India, has invited applications for Nabil Bank SSE Fellowship Batch 2 targeting the budding entrepreneurs and professionals who want to cultivate and excel in their business and social venture-related skills. Interested applicants between the age group of 18 and 50 years can submit their application through Nabil Bank’s official website nabilbank.com following which the successful applicants will be called for the next stage of selection. Fellows will need to commit their six months during their fellowship where they are required to give some three days each week for the intensive mentorship program, as per the media statement.   Nabil Bank, in association with TUSOM and School of Social Entrepreneurship, India, has invited applications for Nabil Bank SSE Fellowship Batch 2 targeting the budding entrepreneurs and professionals who want to cultivate and excel in their business and social venture-related skills. Interested applicants between the age group of 18 and 50 years can submit their application through Nabil Bank’s official website nabilbank.com following which the successful applicants will be called for the next stage of selection. Fellows will need to commit their six months during their fellowship where they are required to give some three days each week for the intensive mentorship program, as per the media statement.   Nabil Bank, in association with TUSOM and School of Social Entrepreneurship, India, has invited applications for Nabil Bank SSE Fellowship Batch 2 targeting the budding entrepreneurs and professionals who want to cultivate and excel in their business and social venture-related skills. Interested applicants between the age group of 18 and 50 years can submit their application through Nabil Bank’s official website nabilbank.com following which the successful applicants will be called for the next stage of selection. Fellows will need to commit their six months during their fellowship where they are required to give some three days each week for the intensive mentorship program, as per the media statement.   "
2022-07-13,Nabil Bank begins joint transaction after acquiring NB Bank; revamped institution stands up as leading financial institution with Rs 22.83 arba in paid-up value,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-begins-joint-transaction-after-acquiring-nb-bank-revamped-institution-stands-up-as-leading-financial-institution-with-rs-2283-arba-in-paid-up-value-2022-07-13,"Nabil Bank started a joint transaction from Asar 28, 2079 after a successful acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank.  The inaugural event was kickstarted amid a program that was also attended by Chief Secretary Mr. Sankar Das Bairagi, Chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudel, and VP Mr. Nirwan Chaudhari, as per the media statement. After the acquisition, Nabil Bank now has Rs 22.83 arba as paid-up capital, core capital of Rs 56.02 arba, deposits of Rs 3.28 kharba, and loans of Rs 3.08 kharba, 267 branches, 274 ATM outlets, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank started a joint transaction from Asar 28, 2079 after a successful acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank.  The inaugural event was kickstarted amid a program that was also attended by Chief Secretary Mr. Sankar Das Bairagi, Chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudel, and VP Mr. Nirwan Chaudhari, as per the media statement. After the acquisition, Nabil Bank now has Rs 22.83 arba as paid-up capital, core capital of Rs 56.02 arba, deposits of Rs 3.28 kharba, and loans of Rs 3.08 kharba, 267 branches, 274 ATM outlets, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank started a joint transaction from Asar 28, 2079 after a successful acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank.  The inaugural event was kickstarted amid a program that was also attended by Chief Secretary Mr. Sankar Das Bairagi, Chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudel, and VP Mr. Nirwan Chaudhari, as per the media statement. After the acquisition, Nabil Bank now has Rs 22.83 arba as paid-up capital, core capital of Rs 56.02 arba, deposits of Rs 3.28 kharba, and loans of Rs 3.08 kharba, 267 branches, 274 ATM outlets, as per the media statement. "
2022-07-07,Nabil and Nepal Bangladesh Bank's Banking Services Shall Be Temporary Shut Down From Friday To Monday As a Part of Acquisition Process,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-and-nepal-bangladesh-banks-banking-services-shall-be-temporary-shut-down-from-friday-to-monday-as-a-part-of-acquisition-process-2022-07-07,"As part of the acquisition process, Nabil Bank Limited and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited have informed customers of the temporary shutdown of banking services, transactions, and other arrangements. As part of the acquisition process, Nabil Bank Limited and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited have informed customers of the temporary shutdown of banking services, transactions, and other arrangements. As part of the acquisition process, Nabil Bank Limited and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited have informed customers of the temporary shutdown of banking services, transactions, and other arrangements. "
2022-07-04,Nabil Bank and Nepal Bangladesh Bank To Commence Joint Transactions  From 27th Ashad In The Name Of Nabil Bank Limited,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-nepal-bangladesh-bank-to-commence-joint-transactions-from-27th-ashad-in-the-name-of-nabil-bank-limited-2022-07-04,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has obtained a Class A license from Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). The license has been received in terms of the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB), the proposal for which has been passed by the special general meeting of the organizations held on Jestha 7, and from NRB’s final approval which has been granted on Ashad 15. Likewise, NABIL acquires all the loan funds and liabilities till the last day of the acquisition of NBB. As per the separate meeting of the Board of Directors of both banks, integrated financial transactions will be conducted in the name of Nabil Bank Limited from Monday, Ashad 27. Upon this joint transaction, the total number of Commercial banks will drop down to 26 in Nepal.  After the acquisition, Nepal Bangladesh Bank's paid-up capital contribution to the Nabil bank will be 43 percent of NBB's present paid-up capital. As a result, the new company's paid-up capital will be 22.83 arba. Similarly, the loan and deposit amounts will total Rs. 309 arba and Rs. 320 arba respectively. Likewise, the bank's non-fund-based business will grow to Rs. 145 arba. Nabil Bank's branch network will grow to 254 after the acquisition, with a total net profit of Rs. 4.46 arba as per the third quarter report of Fiscal Year 2078/79.  Nabil Bank’s Board of Directors appointed Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana as the new Chief Executive Officer of the bank and he assumed his duties from Friday, Ashad 17. Also, the present Chairman of Nabil Bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal will continue to be the Chairman of the bank. OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has obtained a Class A license from Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). The license has been received in terms of the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB), the proposal for which has been passed by the special general meeting of the organizations held on Jestha 7, and from NRB’s final approval which has been granted on Ashad 15. Likewise, NABIL acquires all the loan funds and liabilities till the last day of the acquisition of NBB. As per the separate meeting of the Board of Directors of both banks, integrated financial transactions will be conducted in the name of Nabil Bank Limited from Monday, Ashad 27. Upon this joint transaction, the total number of Commercial banks will drop down to 26 in Nepal.  After the acquisition, Nepal Bangladesh Bank's paid-up capital contribution to the Nabil bank will be 43 percent of NBB's present paid-up capital. As a result, the new company's paid-up capital will be 22.83 arba. Similarly, the loan and deposit amounts will total Rs. 309 arba and Rs. 320 arba respectively. Likewise, the bank's non-fund-based business will grow to Rs. 145 arba. Nabil Bank's branch network will grow to 254 after the acquisition, with a total net profit of Rs. 4.46 arba as per the third quarter report of Fiscal Year 2078/79.  Nabil Bank’s Board of Directors appointed Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana as the new Chief Executive Officer of the bank and he assumed his duties from Friday, Ashad 17. Also, the present Chairman of Nabil Bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal will continue to be the Chairman of the bank. OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has obtained a Class A license from Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). The license has been received in terms of the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB), the proposal for which has been passed by the special general meeting of the organizations held on Jestha 7, and from NRB’s final approval which has been granted on Ashad 15. Likewise, NABIL acquires all the loan funds and liabilities till the last day of the acquisition of NBB. As per the separate meeting of the Board of Directors of both banks, integrated financial transactions will be conducted in the name of Nabil Bank Limited from Monday, Ashad 27. Upon this joint transaction, the total number of Commercial banks will drop down to 26 in Nepal.  After the acquisition, Nepal Bangladesh Bank's paid-up capital contribution to the Nabil bank will be 43 percent of NBB's present paid-up capital. As a result, the new company's paid-up capital will be 22.83 arba. Similarly, the loan and deposit amounts will total Rs. 309 arba and Rs. 320 arba respectively. Likewise, the bank's non-fund-based business will grow to Rs. 145 arba. Nabil Bank's branch network will grow to 254 after the acquisition, with a total net profit of Rs. 4.46 arba as per the third quarter report of Fiscal Year 2078/79.  Nabil Bank’s Board of Directors appointed Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana as the new Chief Executive Officer of the bank and he assumed his duties from Friday, Ashad 17. Also, the present Chairman of Nabil Bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal will continue to be the Chairman of the bank. OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT "
2022-07-01,"Nabil Bank’s newly appointed Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana assumes office",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-newly-appointed-chief-executive-officer-mr-gyanendra-prasad-dhungana-assumes-office-2022-07-01,"Nabil Bank’s newly appointed Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana has assumed his duties from 1st July 2022, Friday. As decided during a board meeting held on 30th June 2022, the Bank’s board of directors have appointed Mr. Dhungana as the new Chief Executive Officer of the bank.  Mr. Dhungana brings with him an extensive banking experience of more than 25 years in management and leadership roles. Prior to joining Nabil Bank, Mr. Dhungana served as the Chief Executive Officer of Nepal Bangladesh Bank for 10 years. He has previously held leadership positions in Nepal Credit & Commerce Bank as the General Manager and Nepal Rastra Bank as the Director. Furthermore, Mr. Dhungana has also served as the President of Nepal Bankers Association in 2018. Mr. Dhungana, who completed his studies in Chartered Accountancy (CA) from India and Certified Public Accountant (CPA) and Masters in Financial Analysis from Australia, was recognized as the ‘Manager to Watch’ by the Management Association of Nepal in 2015. He later on went on to receive an award - ‘Manager of the Year’ by the Nepal Management Association in 2015. Nabil Bank firmly believes that under Mr. Dhungana’s able and capable leadership, the Bank will reach greater heights of success in the coming days by gaining a leading position in terms of various financial indicators. We warmly welcome Mr. Dhungana as the Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank and wish him a successful tenure. Nabil Bank’s newly appointed Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana has assumed his duties from 1st July 2022, Friday. As decided during a board meeting held on 30th June 2022, the Bank’s board of directors have appointed Mr. Dhungana as the new Chief Executive Officer of the bank.  Mr. Dhungana brings with him an extensive banking experience of more than 25 years in management and leadership roles. Prior to joining Nabil Bank, Mr. Dhungana served as the Chief Executive Officer of Nepal Bangladesh Bank for 10 years. He has previously held leadership positions in Nepal Credit & Commerce Bank as the General Manager and Nepal Rastra Bank as the Director. Furthermore, Mr. Dhungana has also served as the President of Nepal Bankers Association in 2018. Mr. Dhungana, who completed his studies in Chartered Accountancy (CA) from India and Certified Public Accountant (CPA) and Masters in Financial Analysis from Australia, was recognized as the ‘Manager to Watch’ by the Management Association of Nepal in 2015. He later on went on to receive an award - ‘Manager of the Year’ by the Nepal Management Association in 2015. Nabil Bank firmly believes that under Mr. Dhungana’s able and capable leadership, the Bank will reach greater heights of success in the coming days by gaining a leading position in terms of various financial indicators. We warmly welcome Mr. Dhungana as the Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank and wish him a successful tenure. Nabil Bank’s newly appointed Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana has assumed his duties from 1st July 2022, Friday. As decided during a board meeting held on 30th June 2022, the Bank’s board of directors have appointed Mr. Dhungana as the new Chief Executive Officer of the bank.  Mr. Dhungana brings with him an extensive banking experience of more than 25 years in management and leadership roles. Prior to joining Nabil Bank, Mr. Dhungana served as the Chief Executive Officer of Nepal Bangladesh Bank for 10 years. He has previously held leadership positions in Nepal Credit & Commerce Bank as the General Manager and Nepal Rastra Bank as the Director. Furthermore, Mr. Dhungana has also served as the President of Nepal Bankers Association in 2018. Mr. Dhungana, who completed his studies in Chartered Accountancy (CA) from India and Certified Public Accountant (CPA) and Masters in Financial Analysis from Australia, was recognized as the ‘Manager to Watch’ by the Management Association of Nepal in 2015. He later on went on to receive an award - ‘Manager of the Year’ by the Nepal Management Association in 2015. Nabil Bank firmly believes that under Mr. Dhungana’s able and capable leadership, the Bank will reach greater heights of success in the coming days by gaining a leading position in terms of various financial indicators. We warmly welcome Mr. Dhungana as the Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank and wish him a successful tenure. "
2022-06-30,Nabil Bank Receives Final Approval From NRB To Acquire Nepal Bangladesh Bank,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-receives-final-approval-from-nrb-to-acquire-nepal-bangladesh-bank-2022-06-30,"Nepal Stock Exchange Limited (NEPSE) has shared an official circular in their website to notify that Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has been granted final approval from Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) in a letter dated 15 Ashad, 2079 to acquire Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB). NABIL and NBB had inked an agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43. The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by the boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078. After the acquisition, the Annual Profit of the bank is expected to be more than Rs. 6 billion, the highest in the industry. The paid-up capital of Nabil Bank at the present is Rs. 18,496.19 million. Meanwhile, the paid-up capital of Nepal Bangladesh Bank is Rs. 10,085.40 million.  Nepal Stock Exchange Limited (NEPSE) has shared an official circular in their website to notify that Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has been granted final approval from Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) in a letter dated 15 Ashad, 2079 to acquire Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB). NABIL and NBB had inked an agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43. The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by the boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078. After the acquisition, the Annual Profit of the bank is expected to be more than Rs. 6 billion, the highest in the industry. The paid-up capital of Nabil Bank at the present is Rs. 18,496.19 million. Meanwhile, the paid-up capital of Nepal Bangladesh Bank is Rs. 10,085.40 million.  Nepal Stock Exchange Limited (NEPSE) has shared an official circular in their website to notify that Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has been granted final approval from Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) in a letter dated 15 Ashad, 2079 to acquire Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB). NABIL and NBB had inked an agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43. The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by the boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078. After the acquisition, the Annual Profit of the bank is expected to be more than Rs. 6 billion, the highest in the industry. The paid-up capital of Nabil Bank at the present is Rs. 18,496.19 million. Meanwhile, the paid-up capital of Nepal Bangladesh Bank is Rs. 10,085.40 million.  "
2022-06-30,Nabil Bank to Celebrate Nabil Green Week on first year anniversary of Nabil Sustainable Banking,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-celebrate-nabil-green-week-on-first-year-anniversary-of-nabil-sustainable-banking-2022-06-30,"Nabil Bank, Nepal’s leading Bank in the private sector, has marked its one year in sustainable banking practice. It was Launched on Paddy Day, 15 Asar 2078 (June 29, 2021), to ensure financial literacy to those with limited financial access in rural areas, commercialize the agricultural sector, promote entrepreneurship and support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the Government of Nepal, “Nabil Sustainable Banking.” The bank states, “During last one year, Sustainable Banking Practice of Nabil bank is seen as an innovative initiation not just in Bank but in the entire banking sector.”  Nabil Bank, since its inception, has been practicing sustainable banking by investing in hydropower, providing concessional loans, and working in social and environmental accountability. As per the Bank, it had had some commendable achievements in various sectors in different parts of the country. The Bank has recently introduced two types of innovative loans targeting those with limited financial access via its “Nabil Sustainable Banking”: “Nabil Entrepreneurial Loan”, and “Nabil Kishan Karja”. Starting from its 17 rural branches, it has provided approximately 41crore loans by mid-June 2022 to 571 farmers and budding entrepreneurs including 60 female entrepreneurs.   Similarly, concern and promotion of the environmental and Societal accountability is a highly prioritized objective of “Nabil Sustainable Banking”, the bank states. Hence, while offering the loans to business units around the country, the Bank has the protocol of providing only its ESRM guidelines (Environment Social Risk Management). Since 2018, the Bank has been conducting “Environment and Social Risk due Diligence” on the clients for loan facilities over Rs 10 million that receive the accommodation and fall into the categories like Commercial Leasing, Term Finance, or Project Finance.  Noting the growing concern of climate change in the world, the Bank has become a member of PCAF in 2021 and has become a part of PCAF to measure and report its greenhouse gas emissions related to its loan portfolio and investment. The Bank has also launched an environmentally friendly awareness campaign by replacing the prayer flag at Bouddhanath Stupa with a biodegradable prayer flag on the occasion of Earth Hour, celebrated on March 26, 2022. Also, it has established the Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship on December 20, 2008, to develop, encourage and promote social entrepreneurship in the country and help to develop and nurture entrepreneurs, solve their social problems such as inequality and deprivation and build sustainable social companies. Furthermore, to reinforce the Bank’s commitment to sustainable banking activities, the Bank has adopted a sustainable practice for all of its staff members that can be incorporated into both their personal and professional lives. By internalizing sustainable practices within the organization, Nabil Bank continues making strides forward to a sustainable future. For the first time in Nepal, to develop Agricultural Ambassador in order to establish agricultural technicians as agri-entrepreneurs in the local market, the Bank has developed the concept of “Agro Loans to Agro Technicians”. To mark the first anniversary of “Nabil Sustainable Banking” and National Paddy day, the Bank has started its week-long initiative “Nabil Green Week”, the Bank said.       Nabil Bank, Nepal’s leading Bank in the private sector, has marked its one year in sustainable banking practice. It was Launched on Paddy Day, 15 Asar 2078 (June 29, 2021), to ensure financial literacy to those with limited financial access in rural areas, commercialize the agricultural sector, promote entrepreneurship and support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the Government of Nepal, “Nabil Sustainable Banking.” The bank states, “During last one year, Sustainable Banking Practice of Nabil bank is seen as an innovative initiation not just in Bank but in the entire banking sector.”  Nabil Bank, since its inception, has been practicing sustainable banking by investing in hydropower, providing concessional loans, and working in social and environmental accountability. As per the Bank, it had had some commendable achievements in various sectors in different parts of the country. The Bank has recently introduced two types of innovative loans targeting those with limited financial access via its “Nabil Sustainable Banking”: “Nabil Entrepreneurial Loan”, and “Nabil Kishan Karja”. Starting from its 17 rural branches, it has provided approximately 41crore loans by mid-June 2022 to 571 farmers and budding entrepreneurs including 60 female entrepreneurs.   Similarly, concern and promotion of the environmental and Societal accountability is a highly prioritized objective of “Nabil Sustainable Banking”, the bank states. Hence, while offering the loans to business units around the country, the Bank has the protocol of providing only its ESRM guidelines (Environment Social Risk Management). Since 2018, the Bank has been conducting “Environment and Social Risk due Diligence” on the clients for loan facilities over Rs 10 million that receive the accommodation and fall into the categories like Commercial Leasing, Term Finance, or Project Finance.  Noting the growing concern of climate change in the world, the Bank has become a member of PCAF in 2021 and has become a part of PCAF to measure and report its greenhouse gas emissions related to its loan portfolio and investment. The Bank has also launched an environmentally friendly awareness campaign by replacing the prayer flag at Bouddhanath Stupa with a biodegradable prayer flag on the occasion of Earth Hour, celebrated on March 26, 2022. Also, it has established the Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship on December 20, 2008, to develop, encourage and promote social entrepreneurship in the country and help to develop and nurture entrepreneurs, solve their social problems such as inequality and deprivation and build sustainable social companies. Furthermore, to reinforce the Bank’s commitment to sustainable banking activities, the Bank has adopted a sustainable practice for all of its staff members that can be incorporated into both their personal and professional lives. By internalizing sustainable practices within the organization, Nabil Bank continues making strides forward to a sustainable future. For the first time in Nepal, to develop Agricultural Ambassador in order to establish agricultural technicians as agri-entrepreneurs in the local market, the Bank has developed the concept of “Agro Loans to Agro Technicians”. To mark the first anniversary of “Nabil Sustainable Banking” and National Paddy day, the Bank has started its week-long initiative “Nabil Green Week”, the Bank said.       Nabil Bank, Nepal’s leading Bank in the private sector, has marked its one year in sustainable banking practice. It was Launched on Paddy Day, 15 Asar 2078 (June 29, 2021), to ensure financial literacy to those with limited financial access in rural areas, commercialize the agricultural sector, promote entrepreneurship and support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the Government of Nepal, “Nabil Sustainable Banking.” The bank states, “During last one year, Sustainable Banking Practice of Nabil bank is seen as an innovative initiation not just in Bank but in the entire banking sector.”  Nabil Bank, since its inception, has been practicing sustainable banking by investing in hydropower, providing concessional loans, and working in social and environmental accountability. As per the Bank, it had had some commendable achievements in various sectors in different parts of the country. The Bank has recently introduced two types of innovative loans targeting those with limited financial access via its “Nabil Sustainable Banking”: “Nabil Entrepreneurial Loan”, and “Nabil Kishan Karja”. Starting from its 17 rural branches, it has provided approximately 41crore loans by mid-June 2022 to 571 farmers and budding entrepreneurs including 60 female entrepreneurs.   Similarly, concern and promotion of the environmental and Societal accountability is a highly prioritized objective of “Nabil Sustainable Banking”, the bank states. Hence, while offering the loans to business units around the country, the Bank has the protocol of providing only its ESRM guidelines (Environment Social Risk Management). Since 2018, the Bank has been conducting “Environment and Social Risk due Diligence” on the clients for loan facilities over Rs 10 million that receive the accommodation and fall into the categories like Commercial Leasing, Term Finance, or Project Finance.  Noting the growing concern of climate change in the world, the Bank has become a member of PCAF in 2021 and has become a part of PCAF to measure and report its greenhouse gas emissions related to its loan portfolio and investment. The Bank has also launched an environmentally friendly awareness campaign by replacing the prayer flag at Bouddhanath Stupa with a biodegradable prayer flag on the occasion of Earth Hour, celebrated on March 26, 2022. Also, it has established the Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship on December 20, 2008, to develop, encourage and promote social entrepreneurship in the country and help to develop and nurture entrepreneurs, solve their social problems such as inequality and deprivation and build sustainable social companies. Furthermore, to reinforce the Bank’s commitment to sustainable banking activities, the Bank has adopted a sustainable practice for all of its staff members that can be incorporated into both their personal and professional lives. By internalizing sustainable practices within the organization, Nabil Bank continues making strides forward to a sustainable future. For the first time in Nepal, to develop Agricultural Ambassador in order to establish agricultural technicians as agri-entrepreneurs in the local market, the Bank has developed the concept of “Agro Loans to Agro Technicians”. To mark the first anniversary of “Nabil Sustainable Banking” and National Paddy day, the Bank has started its week-long initiative “Nabil Green Week”, the Bank said.       "
2022-06-29,1st batch of Nabil SSE receives Enablers of Social Entrepreneurship Award from CNI; 20 chosen entrepreneurs receive full fledge package of mentorship,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/1st-batch-of-nabil-sse-receives-enablers-of-social-entrepreneurship-award-from-cni-20-chosen-entrepreneurs-receive-full-fledge-package-of-mentorship-2022-06-29,"Chamber of Nepalese Industries has awarded 20 fellows of Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship who are the first batch of graduates of the SSE program with the Enablers of Social Entrepreneurship Award.  The first batch of Nabil SSE is having their six months long curriculum-based classes for entrepreneurial development since Chaitra 2078 under the technical support of TUSOM who will then be mentored to promote their business idea for the next six months, as per the media statement. Chamber of Nepalese Industries has awarded 20 fellows of Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship who are the first batch of graduates of the SSE program with the Enablers of Social Entrepreneurship Award.  The first batch of Nabil SSE is having their six months long curriculum-based classes for entrepreneurial development since Chaitra 2078 under the technical support of TUSOM who will then be mentored to promote their business idea for the next six months, as per the media statement. Chamber of Nepalese Industries has awarded 20 fellows of Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship who are the first batch of graduates of the SSE program with the Enablers of Social Entrepreneurship Award.  The first batch of Nabil SSE is having their six months long curriculum-based classes for entrepreneurial development since Chaitra 2078 under the technical support of TUSOM who will then be mentored to promote their business idea for the next six months, as per the media statement. "
2022-06-21,Mr. Anil Keshari Shah Tenure as CEO of Nabil Bank Finally Comes To an End,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/mr-anil-keshari-shah-tenure-as-ceo-of-nabil-bank-finally-comes-to-an-end-2022-06-21,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has sent an official notice to the Securities Exchange Board of Nepal (SEBON), Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE), and CDS & Clearing Ltd regarding the termination of the term of the Chief Executive Officer Mr. Anil Keshari Shah and regarding the assignment of responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer. On the 598th meeting of the Board of Directors of the Bank held on 6 Ashad informed that the tenure of Shah has officially ended. The Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the Bank, Sujit Kumar Shakya has been appointed with effect from 7 Ashad as the Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Bank and has been handed over the responsibilities of the role of CEO.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) had officially appointed Mr. Anil Keshari Shah as the new Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the bank on Falgun, 2074. After a lot of controversy since his first appointment as the CEO of the bank and the implementation of the cooling period by Nepal Rastra Bank, he was finally appointed as the CEO of NABIL after serving as an Acting CEO.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has sent an official notice to the Securities Exchange Board of Nepal (SEBON), Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE), and CDS & Clearing Ltd regarding the termination of the term of the Chief Executive Officer Mr. Anil Keshari Shah and regarding the assignment of responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer. On the 598th meeting of the Board of Directors of the Bank held on 6 Ashad informed that the tenure of Shah has officially ended. The Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the Bank, Sujit Kumar Shakya has been appointed with effect from 7 Ashad as the Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Bank and has been handed over the responsibilities of the role of CEO.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) had officially appointed Mr. Anil Keshari Shah as the new Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the bank on Falgun, 2074. After a lot of controversy since his first appointment as the CEO of the bank and the implementation of the cooling period by Nepal Rastra Bank, he was finally appointed as the CEO of NABIL after serving as an Acting CEO.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has sent an official notice to the Securities Exchange Board of Nepal (SEBON), Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE), and CDS & Clearing Ltd regarding the termination of the term of the Chief Executive Officer Mr. Anil Keshari Shah and regarding the assignment of responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer. On the 598th meeting of the Board of Directors of the Bank held on 6 Ashad informed that the tenure of Shah has officially ended. The Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the Bank, Sujit Kumar Shakya has been appointed with effect from 7 Ashad as the Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Bank and has been handed over the responsibilities of the role of CEO.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) had officially appointed Mr. Anil Keshari Shah as the new Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the bank on Falgun, 2074. After a lot of controversy since his first appointment as the CEO of the bank and the implementation of the cooling period by Nepal Rastra Bank, he was finally appointed as the CEO of NABIL after serving as an Acting CEO.  "
2022-06-20,Nabil Bank ties up with Qatar Airways to provide special privileges to Nabil Cardholders; providing 10% discount for the air tickets,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-ties-up-with-qatar-airways-to-provide-special-privileges-to-nabil-cardholders-providing-10-discount-for-the-air-tickets-2022-06-20,"Nabil Bank has entered into a partnership with Qatar Airways to provide special privileges to Nabil Cardholders. Under this partnership, Nabil Bank’s cardholders will receive up to 10%* discount while purchasing air tickets to selected destinations in Europe, America, and Africa. The discount will be applicable from 1st July 2022 on business and economy class air tickets, which can be availed by Nabil’s cardholders by simply presenting their cards to Qatar Airways’ representatives.  The MoU was signed by Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Nabil Bank’s Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Sarik Bogati Qatar Airways’ Sales Manager - Nepal on behalf Country Manager, Mr Mohamed El Emam during a signing ceremony organized today. Qatar Airways is a global airline that has achieved the 5-Star Covid-19 Airline Safety Rating by international air transport rating organization, Skytrax. Given the impact of Covid-19 on international travel, we believe this tie-up will prove to be beneficial for our customers. Nabil Bank Limited is the nation’s first private sector bank, established in 1984 AD. The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 150 branch offices, 187 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 1,500 international correspondent banking relationships. Nabil Bank has entered into a partnership with Qatar Airways to provide special privileges to Nabil Cardholders. Under this partnership, Nabil Bank’s cardholders will receive up to 10%* discount while purchasing air tickets to selected destinations in Europe, America, and Africa. The discount will be applicable from 1st July 2022 on business and economy class air tickets, which can be availed by Nabil’s cardholders by simply presenting their cards to Qatar Airways’ representatives.  The MoU was signed by Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Nabil Bank’s Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Sarik Bogati Qatar Airways’ Sales Manager - Nepal on behalf Country Manager, Mr Mohamed El Emam during a signing ceremony organized today. Qatar Airways is a global airline that has achieved the 5-Star Covid-19 Airline Safety Rating by international air transport rating organization, Skytrax. Given the impact of Covid-19 on international travel, we believe this tie-up will prove to be beneficial for our customers. Nabil Bank Limited is the nation’s first private sector bank, established in 1984 AD. The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 150 branch offices, 187 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 1,500 international correspondent banking relationships. Nabil Bank has entered into a partnership with Qatar Airways to provide special privileges to Nabil Cardholders. Under this partnership, Nabil Bank’s cardholders will receive up to 10%* discount while purchasing air tickets to selected destinations in Europe, America, and Africa. The discount will be applicable from 1st July 2022 on business and economy class air tickets, which can be availed by Nabil’s cardholders by simply presenting their cards to Qatar Airways’ representatives.  The MoU was signed by Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Nabil Bank’s Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Sarik Bogati Qatar Airways’ Sales Manager - Nepal on behalf Country Manager, Mr Mohamed El Emam during a signing ceremony organized today. Qatar Airways is a global airline that has achieved the 5-Star Covid-19 Airline Safety Rating by international air transport rating organization, Skytrax. Given the impact of Covid-19 on international travel, we believe this tie-up will prove to be beneficial for our customers. Nabil Bank Limited is the nation’s first private sector bank, established in 1984 AD. The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 150 branch offices, 187 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 1,500 international correspondent banking relationships. "
2022-06-17,Nabil Bank launches Nabil Eco-Friendly Business Loan with attractive features; to charge relatively less interest than other credit schemes,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-nabil-eco-friendly-business-loan-with-attractive-features-to-charge-relatively-less-interest-than-other-credit-schemes-2022-06-17,"With an aim to cater the financing requirement of eco-friendly and sustainable businesses, Nabil Bank has announced its new SME loan scheme ‘Nabil Eco-Friendly Business Loan’ for the first time. Under this scheme, any business that contributes to sustainable development will be eligible for the loan at lower price.  According to the bank, the interest of the loan amount will be 0.5% lesser than other loans. Businesses related to waste management, biogas, organic fertilizer production, upcycle, recycle and reuse, and others that envisions lowering the carbon footprint, pollution, and deforestation of the country will be entertained under this scheme. “Nabil Eco-Friendly Business Loan scheme is our latest initiative under sustainable and green financing that reflects the bank’s support in reducing the waste going into the landfill and thereby contributing towards social and environmental values,” said Niraj Kumar Basnet Danil, Head of SME and MF of the Bank. He further added that the bank is further extending its support to these eco-friendly businesses to build into a successful business venture through our capacity enhancement programs and co-marketing program. Stating that Nabil has been advocating sustainable banking since a while, he added, “Being part of the society, it is our duty to work responsibly. We are promoting sustainable banking plans which will definitely open up new avenues and horizon to work under eco-friendly and sustainable businesses.” The scheme not only confined to bridge the financing gaps observed in the eco-friendly businesses, but also envisions to empowering businesses with the Capacity Enhancement Programs and Business Development Support/ Counseling to help them grow. Moreover, the bank shall enroll any borrower under this scheme into the Nabil SME Co-Marketing Program which enables them to promote their product and services to the wide customer base of the bank.   Nabil Bank Limited is the nation’s first private sector bank, established in 1984 AD. The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 150 branch offices, 187 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 1500 international correspondent banking relationships.     With an aim to cater the financing requirement of eco-friendly and sustainable businesses, Nabil Bank has announced its new SME loan scheme ‘Nabil Eco-Friendly Business Loan’ for the first time. Under this scheme, any business that contributes to sustainable development will be eligible for the loan at lower price.  According to the bank, the interest of the loan amount will be 0.5% lesser than other loans. Businesses related to waste management, biogas, organic fertilizer production, upcycle, recycle and reuse, and others that envisions lowering the carbon footprint, pollution, and deforestation of the country will be entertained under this scheme. “Nabil Eco-Friendly Business Loan scheme is our latest initiative under sustainable and green financing that reflects the bank’s support in reducing the waste going into the landfill and thereby contributing towards social and environmental values,” said Niraj Kumar Basnet Danil, Head of SME and MF of the Bank. He further added that the bank is further extending its support to these eco-friendly businesses to build into a successful business venture through our capacity enhancement programs and co-marketing program. Stating that Nabil has been advocating sustainable banking since a while, he added, “Being part of the society, it is our duty to work responsibly. We are promoting sustainable banking plans which will definitely open up new avenues and horizon to work under eco-friendly and sustainable businesses.” The scheme not only confined to bridge the financing gaps observed in the eco-friendly businesses, but also envisions to empowering businesses with the Capacity Enhancement Programs and Business Development Support/ Counseling to help them grow. Moreover, the bank shall enroll any borrower under this scheme into the Nabil SME Co-Marketing Program which enables them to promote their product and services to the wide customer base of the bank.   Nabil Bank Limited is the nation’s first private sector bank, established in 1984 AD. The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 150 branch offices, 187 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 1500 international correspondent banking relationships.     With an aim to cater the financing requirement of eco-friendly and sustainable businesses, Nabil Bank has announced its new SME loan scheme ‘Nabil Eco-Friendly Business Loan’ for the first time. Under this scheme, any business that contributes to sustainable development will be eligible for the loan at lower price.  According to the bank, the interest of the loan amount will be 0.5% lesser than other loans. Businesses related to waste management, biogas, organic fertilizer production, upcycle, recycle and reuse, and others that envisions lowering the carbon footprint, pollution, and deforestation of the country will be entertained under this scheme. “Nabil Eco-Friendly Business Loan scheme is our latest initiative under sustainable and green financing that reflects the bank’s support in reducing the waste going into the landfill and thereby contributing towards social and environmental values,” said Niraj Kumar Basnet Danil, Head of SME and MF of the Bank. He further added that the bank is further extending its support to these eco-friendly businesses to build into a successful business venture through our capacity enhancement programs and co-marketing program. Stating that Nabil has been advocating sustainable banking since a while, he added, “Being part of the society, it is our duty to work responsibly. We are promoting sustainable banking plans which will definitely open up new avenues and horizon to work under eco-friendly and sustainable businesses.” The scheme not only confined to bridge the financing gaps observed in the eco-friendly businesses, but also envisions to empowering businesses with the Capacity Enhancement Programs and Business Development Support/ Counseling to help them grow. Moreover, the bank shall enroll any borrower under this scheme into the Nabil SME Co-Marketing Program which enables them to promote their product and services to the wide customer base of the bank.   Nabil Bank Limited is the nation’s first private sector bank, established in 1984 AD. The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 150 branch offices, 187 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 1500 international correspondent banking relationships.     "
2022-06-16,Nabil Bank launches 10% cashback scheme for its youth and female customers; merchants receiving QR based payment from customers to receive the cashback,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-10-cashback-scheme-for-its-youth-and-female-customers-merchants-receiving-qr-based-payment-from-customers-to-receive-the-cashback-2022-06-16,"Nabil Bank has launched a cashback scheme for QR code-based transactions targeting its youth and women entrepreneurs/customers who receive QR code-based payments from their customers. The scheme will remain in place for a month where the merchants will receive 10% or up to Rs 200 cashback for the first QR-based payment, they receive from their customers. The bank currently has 150 branches, 187 ATM outlets and more than 1500 Nabil remit agents across the nation. Nabil Bank has launched a cashback scheme for QR code-based transactions targeting its youth and women entrepreneurs/customers who receive QR code-based payments from their customers. The scheme will remain in place for a month where the merchants will receive 10% or up to Rs 200 cashback for the first QR-based payment, they receive from their customers. The bank currently has 150 branches, 187 ATM outlets and more than 1500 Nabil remit agents across the nation. Nabil Bank has launched a cashback scheme for QR code-based transactions targeting its youth and women entrepreneurs/customers who receive QR code-based payments from their customers. The scheme will remain in place for a month where the merchants will receive 10% or up to Rs 200 cashback for the first QR-based payment, they receive from their customers. The bank currently has 150 branches, 187 ATM outlets and more than 1500 Nabil remit agents across the nation. "
2022-06-12,Commercial Banks Have Agreed Not To Raise Interest Rates On Deposits,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-have-agreed-not-to-raise-interest-rates-on-deposits-2022-06-12,"Even in Ashad, commercial banks have decided to keep deposit interest rates constant. Since Magh, commercial banks have not hiked deposit interest rates. Individual deposits receives a maximum interest rate of 11.03 percent, while institutional deposits receives a maximum interest rate of 10.03 percent. Senders of remittances are given an interest rate of 12.03 percent. Commercial banks have agreed to maintain a constant interest rate in the expectation of increased deposits as Ashad's expenses rise, and the right decision regarding the interest rates will be taken only once the national monetary policy is finalized. The CEOs of commercial banks have agreed to keep the interest rate unchanged even in Ashad, according to Anil Kumar Upadhyay, president of the Nepal Bankers' Association. ""The union's working committee will make an official resolution tomorrow to maintain the interest rate stable and to keep the interest rate constant even in Shrawan,"" he said. Even in Ashad, commercial banks have decided to keep deposit interest rates constant. Since Magh, commercial banks have not hiked deposit interest rates. Individual deposits receives a maximum interest rate of 11.03 percent, while institutional deposits receives a maximum interest rate of 10.03 percent. Senders of remittances are given an interest rate of 12.03 percent. Commercial banks have agreed to maintain a constant interest rate in the expectation of increased deposits as Ashad's expenses rise, and the right decision regarding the interest rates will be taken only once the national monetary policy is finalized. The CEOs of commercial banks have agreed to keep the interest rate unchanged even in Ashad, according to Anil Kumar Upadhyay, president of the Nepal Bankers' Association. ""The union's working committee will make an official resolution tomorrow to maintain the interest rate stable and to keep the interest rate constant even in Shrawan,"" he said. Even in Ashad, commercial banks have decided to keep deposit interest rates constant. Since Magh, commercial banks have not hiked deposit interest rates. Individual deposits receives a maximum interest rate of 11.03 percent, while institutional deposits receives a maximum interest rate of 10.03 percent. Senders of remittances are given an interest rate of 12.03 percent. Commercial banks have agreed to maintain a constant interest rate in the expectation of increased deposits as Ashad's expenses rise, and the right decision regarding the interest rates will be taken only once the national monetary policy is finalized. The CEOs of commercial banks have agreed to keep the interest rate unchanged even in Ashad, according to Anil Kumar Upadhyay, president of the Nepal Bankers' Association. ""The union's working committee will make an official resolution tomorrow to maintain the interest rate stable and to keep the interest rate constant even in Shrawan,"" he said. "
2022-06-12,"Commercial Banks Profit Rs. 58 Arba Till Baishakh of This Fiscal Year, 3 Development Banks and 2 Finance Companies In Loss",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-profit-rs-58-arba-till-baishakh-of-this-fiscal-year-3-development-banks-and-2-finance-companies-in-loss-2022-06-12,"Nepal Rastra Bank has unveiled the recent statistics covering the net profit of commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies for up to Baishakh of the current fiscal year 2078/79. Data shows that commercial banks together have realized a total net profit of Rs. 58 Arba and 33 crores. Out of the 27 commercial banks, Global IME Bank stands at the top position with a net profit of Rs. 4 Arba and 31 crores. Likewise, NIC Asia Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 4 Arba and 11 crores. Meanwhile, Nabil Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 3 Arba and 82 Crores. On the contrary, Laxmi Bank has the least net profit of Rs. 92 crores. Similarly, in the ten months of the current fiscal year 2078/79, development banks have succeeded to make a total net profit of Rs. 5 Arba and 77 crores. 3 of the 17 development bank have realized net losses during this period. Whereas, Muktinath Bikas Bank has realized an impressive net profit of Rs. 1 Arba and 14 crores, the highest in the industry. Likewise, Garima Bikas Bank stands in the second position with a net profit of Rs. 87.9 crores. Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank, with a net profit of Rs. 80 crores, stands in the third position.   On the opposite, data from NRB shows that Salapa and Corporate development banks reported the least profit of Rs. 90 Lakhs and Rs. 85.6 Lakhs respectively. However, 3 development banks, viz, Karnali, Narayani, and Saptakoshi Development Bank reported net losses during the period. Finance companies have made a total net profit of Rs. 1.01 Arba. Out of the 17 companies, two finance company reported a net loss in the first ten months, while the rest 15 are in a profit. Best Finance Company comes first on the list with a net profit of Rs. 15.2 crores. Likewise, ICFC Finance and Manju Finance stand in the second and third positions with a net profit of Rs. 13.8 crores and Rs. 12.6 crores respectively. However, Multi and Samriddhi finance company have reported net losses of Rs. 32.9 lakhs and Rs. 92.2 lakhs respectively. Nepal Rastra Bank has unveiled the recent statistics covering the net profit of commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies for up to Baishakh of the current fiscal year 2078/79. Data shows that commercial banks together have realized a total net profit of Rs. 58 Arba and 33 crores. Out of the 27 commercial banks, Global IME Bank stands at the top position with a net profit of Rs. 4 Arba and 31 crores. Likewise, NIC Asia Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 4 Arba and 11 crores. Meanwhile, Nabil Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 3 Arba and 82 Crores. On the contrary, Laxmi Bank has the least net profit of Rs. 92 crores. Similarly, in the ten months of the current fiscal year 2078/79, development banks have succeeded to make a total net profit of Rs. 5 Arba and 77 crores. 3 of the 17 development bank have realized net losses during this period. Whereas, Muktinath Bikas Bank has realized an impressive net profit of Rs. 1 Arba and 14 crores, the highest in the industry. Likewise, Garima Bikas Bank stands in the second position with a net profit of Rs. 87.9 crores. Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank, with a net profit of Rs. 80 crores, stands in the third position.   On the opposite, data from NRB shows that Salapa and Corporate development banks reported the least profit of Rs. 90 Lakhs and Rs. 85.6 Lakhs respectively. However, 3 development banks, viz, Karnali, Narayani, and Saptakoshi Development Bank reported net losses during the period. Finance companies have made a total net profit of Rs. 1.01 Arba. Out of the 17 companies, two finance company reported a net loss in the first ten months, while the rest 15 are in a profit. Best Finance Company comes first on the list with a net profit of Rs. 15.2 crores. Likewise, ICFC Finance and Manju Finance stand in the second and third positions with a net profit of Rs. 13.8 crores and Rs. 12.6 crores respectively. However, Multi and Samriddhi finance company have reported net losses of Rs. 32.9 lakhs and Rs. 92.2 lakhs respectively. Nepal Rastra Bank has unveiled the recent statistics covering the net profit of commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies for up to Baishakh of the current fiscal year 2078/79. Data shows that commercial banks together have realized a total net profit of Rs. 58 Arba and 33 crores. Out of the 27 commercial banks, Global IME Bank stands at the top position with a net profit of Rs. 4 Arba and 31 crores. Likewise, NIC Asia Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 4 Arba and 11 crores. Meanwhile, Nabil Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 3 Arba and 82 Crores. On the contrary, Laxmi Bank has the least net profit of Rs. 92 crores. Similarly, in the ten months of the current fiscal year 2078/79, development banks have succeeded to make a total net profit of Rs. 5 Arba and 77 crores. 3 of the 17 development bank have realized net losses during this period. Whereas, Muktinath Bikas Bank has realized an impressive net profit of Rs. 1 Arba and 14 crores, the highest in the industry. Likewise, Garima Bikas Bank stands in the second position with a net profit of Rs. 87.9 crores. Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank, with a net profit of Rs. 80 crores, stands in the third position.   On the opposite, data from NRB shows that Salapa and Corporate development banks reported the least profit of Rs. 90 Lakhs and Rs. 85.6 Lakhs respectively. However, 3 development banks, viz, Karnali, Narayani, and Saptakoshi Development Bank reported net losses during the period. Finance companies have made a total net profit of Rs. 1.01 Arba. Out of the 17 companies, two finance company reported a net loss in the first ten months, while the rest 15 are in a profit. Best Finance Company comes first on the list with a net profit of Rs. 15.2 crores. Likewise, ICFC Finance and Manju Finance stand in the second and third positions with a net profit of Rs. 13.8 crores and Rs. 12.6 crores respectively. However, Multi and Samriddhi finance company have reported net losses of Rs. 32.9 lakhs and Rs. 92.2 lakhs respectively. "
2022-06-09,Nabil Bank becomes first bank to walk the walk of Kathmandu Mayor for extending proper washroom facility; public can now enjoy washrooms at 16 branches of Nabil Bank inside KMC for coming 5 years,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-becomes-first-bank-to-walk-the-walk-of-kathmandu-mayor-for-extending-proper-washroom-facility-public-can-now-enjoy-washrooms-at-16-branches-of-nabil-bank-inside-kmc-for-coming-5-years-2022-06-09,"Walking the walk of Kathmandu Metro, Nabil Bank has decided to set open its designated branches inside KMC to use their washroom facilities for the general public.  The bank has entered into an agreement with KMC to utilize and maintain its washroom facilities at 16 different branches inside Kathmandu city for the service of the public for the upcoming five years, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 150 branches, 187 ATM outlets and more than 1500 Nabil remit agents across the nation.   Walking the walk of Kathmandu Metro, Nabil Bank has decided to set open its designated branches inside KMC to use their washroom facilities for the general public.  The bank has entered into an agreement with KMC to utilize and maintain its washroom facilities at 16 different branches inside Kathmandu city for the service of the public for the upcoming five years, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 150 branches, 187 ATM outlets and more than 1500 Nabil remit agents across the nation.   Walking the walk of Kathmandu Metro, Nabil Bank has decided to set open its designated branches inside KMC to use their washroom facilities for the general public.  The bank has entered into an agreement with KMC to utilize and maintain its washroom facilities at 16 different branches inside Kathmandu city for the service of the public for the upcoming five years, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 150 branches, 187 ATM outlets and more than 1500 Nabil remit agents across the nation.   "
2022-06-07,Comparative Analysis of Commercial Banks: How Much Has P/E Ratio Declined Since The All-Time High?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/comparative-analysis-of-commercial-banks-how-much-has-pe-ratio-declined-since-the-all-time-high-2022-06-07,"Another day, another falls in the stock market. These sharp declines have become the norm. When all of the sub-indices close in the red, traders and investors aren't surprised. This is in sharp contrast to the market's status last year. In August 2021, the NEPSE had risen to almost 3200 points. Since then, it hasn't gotten any higher. Instead, 'volatile' is the perfect word to describe the market. Whenever the bulls take the market up, the bears bring it back down again. This is how the market has been moving over the last nine months. Now the bears are in control. In market speak, we say there has been a change in sentiment. Some are even talking about a full-fledged bear market.   More so, NEPSE has lost 10% In the last 8 trading days and today (7th June, 22) the index closed at 2,020.23 with a loss of 2.21%. Here we try to analyze the companies in the banking sector whose P/E ratio has been affected most due to the market fluctuations. PE ratio shows the sum of money you are ready to pay for each rupee worth of the earnings of the company. With the ongoing bearish trend, the investors in the secondary market are inquisitive about various indicators such as EPS, market price, and P/E ratio of the commercial banks. Usually, a higher P/E ratio denotes the stock is being overvalued while a lower P/E ratio denotes the undervaluation of the company’s stocks. The higher P/E ratio also means the company’s management, operation and structure deserve a better premium in the market. The lower P/E ratio further shows a company has scope for growth in comparison to its competitors. The ranking of these banks as per the third-quarter report of the fiscal year 2078/79 in terms of the P/E ratio is provided below. Rastra Banijaya Bank(RBB) is not listed in NEPSE, therefore the analysis discards RBB. Also, Nepal Bangladesh Bank (NBB) is not considered in this analysis since its trading is halted owing to its ongoing merger procedure with Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL). *LTP – As of 7th June 2022 Nepal Credit And Commercial Bank Limited (NCCB) has the least P/E ratio of 11.40 among all commercial banks. It is further followed by Machapuchre Bank Limited (MBL) with a PE ratio of 12.21. Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) whose trading has resumed from yesterday is seen with a P/E ratio of 22.58. Companies that grow faster than average typically, have higher P/Es, such as Nabil bank in this case, whose PE ratio stands at 34.42 times. A higher P/E ratio shows that investors are willing to pay a higher share price today because of growth expectations in the future. The average industry P/E ratio is 16.27 times (as of 7th June, 22). Likewise, if we compare the average industry P/E ratio of 18th Aug, 21 and 7th June, 22 the average industry P/E ratio has declined significantly. The average Industry P.E ratio as of 18th Aug, 21 was 28.76 times. Going through all the analysis, we can say that the market is irrational at times, but this could be a potential moment opportunity for the investors who are looking for value as warren buffet has quoted ‘Be fearful when others are greedy, be greedy when others are fearful’ Another day, another falls in the stock market. These sharp declines have become the norm. When all of the sub-indices close in the red, traders and investors aren't surprised. This is in sharp contrast to the market's status last year. In August 2021, the NEPSE had risen to almost 3200 points. Since then, it hasn't gotten any higher. Instead, 'volatile' is the perfect word to describe the market. Whenever the bulls take the market up, the bears bring it back down again. This is how the market has been moving over the last nine months. Now the bears are in control. In market speak, we say there has been a change in sentiment. Some are even talking about a full-fledged bear market.   More so, NEPSE has lost 10% In the last 8 trading days and today (7th June, 22) the index closed at 2,020.23 with a loss of 2.21%. Here we try to analyze the companies in the banking sector whose P/E ratio has been affected most due to the market fluctuations. PE ratio shows the sum of money you are ready to pay for each rupee worth of the earnings of the company. With the ongoing bearish trend, the investors in the secondary market are inquisitive about various indicators such as EPS, market price, and P/E ratio of the commercial banks. Usually, a higher P/E ratio denotes the stock is being overvalued while a lower P/E ratio denotes the undervaluation of the company’s stocks. The higher P/E ratio also means the company’s management, operation and structure deserve a better premium in the market. The lower P/E ratio further shows a company has scope for growth in comparison to its competitors. The ranking of these banks as per the third-quarter report of the fiscal year 2078/79 in terms of the P/E ratio is provided below. Rastra Banijaya Bank(RBB) is not listed in NEPSE, therefore the analysis discards RBB. Also, Nepal Bangladesh Bank (NBB) is not considered in this analysis since its trading is halted owing to its ongoing merger procedure with Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL). *LTP – As of 7th June 2022 Nepal Credit And Commercial Bank Limited (NCCB) has the least P/E ratio of 11.40 among all commercial banks. It is further followed by Machapuchre Bank Limited (MBL) with a PE ratio of 12.21. Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) whose trading has resumed from yesterday is seen with a P/E ratio of 22.58. Companies that grow faster than average typically, have higher P/Es, such as Nabil bank in this case, whose PE ratio stands at 34.42 times. A higher P/E ratio shows that investors are willing to pay a higher share price today because of growth expectations in the future. The average industry P/E ratio is 16.27 times (as of 7th June, 22). Likewise, if we compare the average industry P/E ratio of 18th Aug, 21 and 7th June, 22 the average industry P/E ratio has declined significantly. The average Industry P.E ratio as of 18th Aug, 21 was 28.76 times. Going through all the analysis, we can say that the market is irrational at times, but this could be a potential moment opportunity for the investors who are looking for value as warren buffet has quoted ‘Be fearful when others are greedy, be greedy when others are fearful’ Another day, another falls in the stock market. These sharp declines have become the norm. When all of the sub-indices close in the red, traders and investors aren't surprised. This is in sharp contrast to the market's status last year. In August 2021, the NEPSE had risen to almost 3200 points. Since then, it hasn't gotten any higher. Instead, 'volatile' is the perfect word to describe the market. Whenever the bulls take the market up, the bears bring it back down again. This is how the market has been moving over the last nine months. Now the bears are in control. In market speak, we say there has been a change in sentiment. Some are even talking about a full-fledged bear market.   More so, NEPSE has lost 10% In the last 8 trading days and today (7th June, 22) the index closed at 2,020.23 with a loss of 2.21%. Here we try to analyze the companies in the banking sector whose P/E ratio has been affected most due to the market fluctuations. PE ratio shows the sum of money you are ready to pay for each rupee worth of the earnings of the company. With the ongoing bearish trend, the investors in the secondary market are inquisitive about various indicators such as EPS, market price, and P/E ratio of the commercial banks. Usually, a higher P/E ratio denotes the stock is being overvalued while a lower P/E ratio denotes the undervaluation of the company’s stocks. The higher P/E ratio also means the company’s management, operation and structure deserve a better premium in the market. The lower P/E ratio further shows a company has scope for growth in comparison to its competitors. The ranking of these banks as per the third-quarter report of the fiscal year 2078/79 in terms of the P/E ratio is provided below. Rastra Banijaya Bank(RBB) is not listed in NEPSE, therefore the analysis discards RBB. Also, Nepal Bangladesh Bank (NBB) is not considered in this analysis since its trading is halted owing to its ongoing merger procedure with Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL). *LTP – As of 7th June 2022 Nepal Credit And Commercial Bank Limited (NCCB) has the least P/E ratio of 11.40 among all commercial banks. It is further followed by Machapuchre Bank Limited (MBL) with a PE ratio of 12.21. Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) whose trading has resumed from yesterday is seen with a P/E ratio of 22.58. Companies that grow faster than average typically, have higher P/Es, such as Nabil bank in this case, whose PE ratio stands at 34.42 times. A higher P/E ratio shows that investors are willing to pay a higher share price today because of growth expectations in the future. The average industry P/E ratio is 16.27 times (as of 7th June, 22). Likewise, if we compare the average industry P/E ratio of 18th Aug, 21 and 7th June, 22 the average industry P/E ratio has declined significantly. The average Industry P.E ratio as of 18th Aug, 21 was 28.76 times. Going through all the analysis, we can say that the market is irrational at times, but this could be a potential moment opportunity for the investors who are looking for value as warren buffet has quoted ‘Be fearful when others are greedy, be greedy when others are fearful’ "
2022-06-06,Commercial Banks' Overall Market Capitalization Has Dropped By 32% Since The All Time High,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-overall-market-capitalization-has-dropped-by-32-since-the-all-time-high-2022-06-06,"The fall of over a thousand points on the indicator, which had climbed as high as 3200 on 18 August, 2021, has had a negative influence on most companies' values. Commercial bank stocks have also suffered as a result of this. As the index has set a target of 3,200, the value of emerging commercial banks has been steadily dropping along with the declining market rhythm. The share price of commercial banks, which account for the majority of market capitalization, has dropped by more than half since its peak. As a result, majority of the bank shares are presently trading for less than Rs 300 each. On the basis of declining prices alone, investors who have bought at the highest price point of commercial banks have lost an average of 32%. The stock prices of 26* publicly traded commercial banks have dropped significantly since their peak. *Since Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) and Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) trading was halted during the all-time high, the figure of 18th August 2021 for these bank are considered to be Rs. 460 per share and Rs. 484 per share as of May 13, 2021. *Owing to its merger with Nabil Bank, the last transaction price (LTP) of NBB (Nepal Bangladesh Bank) is considered to be on Jan 13, 2022. *Out of 27 commercial banks, Rastriya Banjiya Bank (RBB) is not Tradeable. Commercial banks occupy the highest market capitalization. However, the market's decreasing trend cannot be sustained solely by the appeal of one subgroup. Furthermore, a drop in the stock price of the company with the highest share of the overall market capitalization instantly puts the index under pressure. Commercial banks alone account for nearly 38% of overall market value, according to the latest estimates. Nabil Bank is responsible for 5% of the entire market capitalization. Due to their large capital, commercial banks are also considered low-risk businesses. Price activity shows that these stocks stay away from unexpected fluctuations. Some investors who consider risk weighting only look at large-cap stocks like commercial banks. High-cap commercial bank stocks have a low level of volatility. Modest cap stocks have a tendency to react to every market change due to their small capitalization. As it falls under the regulatory scope of Nepal Rastra Bank, investments made in commercial banks are held by the shareholders for a long time. However, due to the declining market momentum, the size of investments in commercial banks has been shrinking. Investors who purchased Kumari Bank shares at Rs 387 have already lost 44 percent of their overall investment. Although the return in the form of bonus (6% for last year) has given the investors some relief, the bank's share price has not escaped the pressure of price adjustment. Despite the growth in the number of shares, commercial banks' overall market capitalization has dropped by around 32 percent. Due to all these factors, the NEPSE index has also declined by 35 percent since the all time high.  The fall of over a thousand points on the indicator, which had climbed as high as 3200 on 18 August, 2021, has had a negative influence on most companies' values. Commercial bank stocks have also suffered as a result of this. As the index has set a target of 3,200, the value of emerging commercial banks has been steadily dropping along with the declining market rhythm. The share price of commercial banks, which account for the majority of market capitalization, has dropped by more than half since its peak. As a result, majority of the bank shares are presently trading for less than Rs 300 each. On the basis of declining prices alone, investors who have bought at the highest price point of commercial banks have lost an average of 32%. The stock prices of 26* publicly traded commercial banks have dropped significantly since their peak. *Since Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) and Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) trading was halted during the all-time high, the figure of 18th August 2021 for these bank are considered to be Rs. 460 per share and Rs. 484 per share as of May 13, 2021. *Owing to its merger with Nabil Bank, the last transaction price (LTP) of NBB (Nepal Bangladesh Bank) is considered to be on Jan 13, 2022. *Out of 27 commercial banks, Rastriya Banjiya Bank (RBB) is not Tradeable. Commercial banks occupy the highest market capitalization. However, the market's decreasing trend cannot be sustained solely by the appeal of one subgroup. Furthermore, a drop in the stock price of the company with the highest share of the overall market capitalization instantly puts the index under pressure. Commercial banks alone account for nearly 38% of overall market value, according to the latest estimates. Nabil Bank is responsible for 5% of the entire market capitalization. Due to their large capital, commercial banks are also considered low-risk businesses. Price activity shows that these stocks stay away from unexpected fluctuations. Some investors who consider risk weighting only look at large-cap stocks like commercial banks. High-cap commercial bank stocks have a low level of volatility. Modest cap stocks have a tendency to react to every market change due to their small capitalization. As it falls under the regulatory scope of Nepal Rastra Bank, investments made in commercial banks are held by the shareholders for a long time. However, due to the declining market momentum, the size of investments in commercial banks has been shrinking. Investors who purchased Kumari Bank shares at Rs 387 have already lost 44 percent of their overall investment. Although the return in the form of bonus (6% for last year) has given the investors some relief, the bank's share price has not escaped the pressure of price adjustment. Despite the growth in the number of shares, commercial banks' overall market capitalization has dropped by around 32 percent. Due to all these factors, the NEPSE index has also declined by 35 percent since the all time high.  The fall of over a thousand points on the indicator, which had climbed as high as 3200 on 18 August, 2021, has had a negative influence on most companies' values. Commercial bank stocks have also suffered as a result of this. As the index has set a target of 3,200, the value of emerging commercial banks has been steadily dropping along with the declining market rhythm. The share price of commercial banks, which account for the majority of market capitalization, has dropped by more than half since its peak. As a result, majority of the bank shares are presently trading for less than Rs 300 each. On the basis of declining prices alone, investors who have bought at the highest price point of commercial banks have lost an average of 32%. The stock prices of 26* publicly traded commercial banks have dropped significantly since their peak. *Since Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) and Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) trading was halted during the all-time high, the figure of 18th August 2021 for these bank are considered to be Rs. 460 per share and Rs. 484 per share as of May 13, 2021. *Owing to its merger with Nabil Bank, the last transaction price (LTP) of NBB (Nepal Bangladesh Bank) is considered to be on Jan 13, 2022. *Out of 27 commercial banks, Rastriya Banjiya Bank (RBB) is not Tradeable. Commercial banks occupy the highest market capitalization. However, the market's decreasing trend cannot be sustained solely by the appeal of one subgroup. Furthermore, a drop in the stock price of the company with the highest share of the overall market capitalization instantly puts the index under pressure. Commercial banks alone account for nearly 38% of overall market value, according to the latest estimates. Nabil Bank is responsible for 5% of the entire market capitalization. Due to their large capital, commercial banks are also considered low-risk businesses. Price activity shows that these stocks stay away from unexpected fluctuations. Some investors who consider risk weighting only look at large-cap stocks like commercial banks. High-cap commercial bank stocks have a low level of volatility. Modest cap stocks have a tendency to react to every market change due to their small capitalization. As it falls under the regulatory scope of Nepal Rastra Bank, investments made in commercial banks are held by the shareholders for a long time. However, due to the declining market momentum, the size of investments in commercial banks has been shrinking. Investors who purchased Kumari Bank shares at Rs 387 have already lost 44 percent of their overall investment. Although the return in the form of bonus (6% for last year) has given the investors some relief, the bank's share price has not escaped the pressure of price adjustment. Despite the growth in the number of shares, commercial banks' overall market capitalization has dropped by around 32 percent. Due to all these factors, the NEPSE index has also declined by 35 percent since the all time high.  "
2022-06-01,52-Week High/Low Analysis; Is This The Best Time To Buy Shares?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/52-week-highlow-analysis-is-this-the-best-time-to-buy-shares-2022-06-01,"What is a 52-week high/low indicator? The 52-week high/low is a price indicator that represents the highest and lowest price at which a security has traded over the course of a year. The 52-week high/low is calculated using the security's daily closing price. Traders can use the 52-week high as a resistance level and the 52-week low as a support level to help them make trading decisions. Why is this period an excellent moment to invest in the stock market? The secondary market continues to decline. Although many expected the market to rise slightly after the budget for the coming fiscal year, it has not been able to lift the morale of investors. Investors have been frustrated by the lack of a big and transformative program for the stock market in the budget. But the market doesn't always fall that way. The declining market is also an opportunity to invest. The market also gives investors a golden opportunity to buy from time to time. Some analysts say that it is time to start buying now that the market has come down a lot. An analysis of facts that we found there seems to have created a very good buying opportunity in the market like the opinion of analysts. Sector-wise Analysis of 52 weeks High & Low Our analysis of the company's 52-week highs and lows shows that the time has come to enter the market. The table shows the 52-week high share price and the lowest share price of all sectors of NEPSE, as well as the 180-day Volume, Weighted Average Price(VWAP). Looking at the table, it is seen that the 52-week high price of many companies has dropped by an average of 60 percent. For some, prices seem to have dropped by as much as 70 percent. *The Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) is the average price of a stock divided by the total trading volume. The VWAP is a formula for calculating a stock's average price over time. The VWAP makes it easier for investors to compare a stock's current price to a benchmark, making it easier to decide when to enter and quit the market. The VWAP can also help investors decide whether to take an active or passive strategy to stock and execute the right move at the right moment. For our analysis, we have taken a period of 180-days VWAP.  Let's look at the 52-week highs and lows of listed companies in various sectors and the statistics confirming the buying opportunities given to them by the market. *LTP - Last Transaction Price as of 31st May, 2022 *Price- All prices are mentioned in rupees.  When we look at the 52-week high/low data for NMB, we can see that the RSI (Relative Strength Index) is almost at 30, and the prices in the 52-week low are dropping rapidly, implying that now is the good time for investors to acquire NMB shares if they plan to hold them for a long period.  *The Relative Strength Index (RSI) is a momentum oscillator that measures the speed and change of price movements. The RSI oscillates between zero and 100. Traditionally the RSI is considered overbought when above 70 and oversold when below 30. What is a 52-week high/low indicator? The 52-week high/low is a price indicator that represents the highest and lowest price at which a security has traded over the course of a year. The 52-week high/low is calculated using the security's daily closing price. Traders can use the 52-week high as a resistance level and the 52-week low as a support level to help them make trading decisions. Why is this period an excellent moment to invest in the stock market? The secondary market continues to decline. Although many expected the market to rise slightly after the budget for the coming fiscal year, it has not been able to lift the morale of investors. Investors have been frustrated by the lack of a big and transformative program for the stock market in the budget. But the market doesn't always fall that way. The declining market is also an opportunity to invest. The market also gives investors a golden opportunity to buy from time to time. Some analysts say that it is time to start buying now that the market has come down a lot. An analysis of facts that we found there seems to have created a very good buying opportunity in the market like the opinion of analysts. Sector-wise Analysis of 52 weeks High & Low Our analysis of the company's 52-week highs and lows shows that the time has come to enter the market. The table shows the 52-week high share price and the lowest share price of all sectors of NEPSE, as well as the 180-day Volume, Weighted Average Price(VWAP). Looking at the table, it is seen that the 52-week high price of many companies has dropped by an average of 60 percent. For some, prices seem to have dropped by as much as 70 percent. *The Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) is the average price of a stock divided by the total trading volume. The VWAP is a formula for calculating a stock's average price over time. The VWAP makes it easier for investors to compare a stock's current price to a benchmark, making it easier to decide when to enter and quit the market. The VWAP can also help investors decide whether to take an active or passive strategy to stock and execute the right move at the right moment. For our analysis, we have taken a period of 180-days VWAP.  Let's look at the 52-week highs and lows of listed companies in various sectors and the statistics confirming the buying opportunities given to them by the market. *LTP - Last Transaction Price as of 31st May, 2022 *Price- All prices are mentioned in rupees.  When we look at the 52-week high/low data for NMB, we can see that the RSI (Relative Strength Index) is almost at 30, and the prices in the 52-week low are dropping rapidly, implying that now is the good time for investors to acquire NMB shares if they plan to hold them for a long period.  *The Relative Strength Index (RSI) is a momentum oscillator that measures the speed and change of price movements. The RSI oscillates between zero and 100. Traditionally the RSI is considered overbought when above 70 and oversold when below 30. What is a 52-week high/low indicator? The 52-week high/low is a price indicator that represents the highest and lowest price at which a security has traded over the course of a year. The 52-week high/low is calculated using the security's daily closing price. Traders can use the 52-week high as a resistance level and the 52-week low as a support level to help them make trading decisions. Why is this period an excellent moment to invest in the stock market? The secondary market continues to decline. Although many expected the market to rise slightly after the budget for the coming fiscal year, it has not been able to lift the morale of investors. Investors have been frustrated by the lack of a big and transformative program for the stock market in the budget. But the market doesn't always fall that way. The declining market is also an opportunity to invest. The market also gives investors a golden opportunity to buy from time to time. Some analysts say that it is time to start buying now that the market has come down a lot. An analysis of facts that we found there seems to have created a very good buying opportunity in the market like the opinion of analysts. Sector-wise Analysis of 52 weeks High & Low Our analysis of the company's 52-week highs and lows shows that the time has come to enter the market. The table shows the 52-week high share price and the lowest share price of all sectors of NEPSE, as well as the 180-day Volume, Weighted Average Price(VWAP). Looking at the table, it is seen that the 52-week high price of many companies has dropped by an average of 60 percent. For some, prices seem to have dropped by as much as 70 percent. *The Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) is the average price of a stock divided by the total trading volume. The VWAP is a formula for calculating a stock's average price over time. The VWAP makes it easier for investors to compare a stock's current price to a benchmark, making it easier to decide when to enter and quit the market. The VWAP can also help investors decide whether to take an active or passive strategy to stock and execute the right move at the right moment. For our analysis, we have taken a period of 180-days VWAP.  Let's look at the 52-week highs and lows of listed companies in various sectors and the statistics confirming the buying opportunities given to them by the market. *LTP - Last Transaction Price as of 31st May, 2022 *Price- All prices are mentioned in rupees.  When we look at the 52-week high/low data for NMB, we can see that the RSI (Relative Strength Index) is almost at 30, and the prices in the 52-week low are dropping rapidly, implying that now is the good time for investors to acquire NMB shares if they plan to hold them for a long period.  *The Relative Strength Index (RSI) is a momentum oscillator that measures the speed and change of price movements. The RSI oscillates between zero and 100. Traditionally the RSI is considered overbought when above 70 and oversold when below 30. "
2022-05-27,IJ Global Magazine lists Nabil Bank as TOP 20 Banks; receives rare recognition for any bank from Nepal by a premier publication,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/ij-global-magazine-lists-nabil-bank-as-top-20-banks-receives-rare-recognition-for-any-bank-from-nepal-by-a-premier-publication-2022-05-27,"Nabil Bank has been listed among the exclusive league Table of Top 20 Banks published by     IJ Global Magazine under Global Infrastructure and Project Finance category IJ Global  as per  Report Q1 2022. This is a rare recognition for any bank from Nepal to be listed by the premier publication like IJ Global, which is a part of EuroMoney Institutional Investor Business, and considered to be the world's largest infrastructure and project finance data sources. The IJ Global database covers more than 32,000 transactions, 26,000 projects and 2,100 funds that are updated on a daily basis with market coverage of 80% of the top project finance lenders, 90% of the top law firms, and 85% of the top financial advisers. Anil Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank stated, “This recognition showcases Nabil Bank’s prudent credit screening process, expertise in infrastructure financing and demonstrates the Bank’s capabilities specially in energy financing. Nabil Bank has been ranked 14 in the league table which is amongst the G- SIB (Global Systemically Important Banks). Nabil Bank’s listing in the league table significantly enhances the Bank’s market profile and establishes the Bank’s brand in the international market” The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking with 150 branches, 187 ATMs and international market access with over 170 correspondent baking partners. The Bank is at the forefront in infrastructure financing and large loan syndication arrangement in the country. The construction-based industries, viz., cement and steel, banking with us account for nearly 50% of total country’s consumption. The Bank’s exposure in Hydro power sector covers total generation capacity above 1,800 MW. Nabil Bank is also a part of the country’s largest loan syndication arrangement for the 900 MW Arun III Hydroelectricity Project which is under construction. Nabil Bank has been listed among the exclusive league Table of Top 20 Banks published by     IJ Global Magazine under Global Infrastructure and Project Finance category IJ Global  as per  Report Q1 2022. This is a rare recognition for any bank from Nepal to be listed by the premier publication like IJ Global, which is a part of EuroMoney Institutional Investor Business, and considered to be the world's largest infrastructure and project finance data sources. The IJ Global database covers more than 32,000 transactions, 26,000 projects and 2,100 funds that are updated on a daily basis with market coverage of 80% of the top project finance lenders, 90% of the top law firms, and 85% of the top financial advisers. Anil Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank stated, “This recognition showcases Nabil Bank’s prudent credit screening process, expertise in infrastructure financing and demonstrates the Bank’s capabilities specially in energy financing. Nabil Bank has been ranked 14 in the league table which is amongst the G- SIB (Global Systemically Important Banks). Nabil Bank’s listing in the league table significantly enhances the Bank’s market profile and establishes the Bank’s brand in the international market” The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking with 150 branches, 187 ATMs and international market access with over 170 correspondent baking partners. The Bank is at the forefront in infrastructure financing and large loan syndication arrangement in the country. The construction-based industries, viz., cement and steel, banking with us account for nearly 50% of total country’s consumption. The Bank’s exposure in Hydro power sector covers total generation capacity above 1,800 MW. Nabil Bank is also a part of the country’s largest loan syndication arrangement for the 900 MW Arun III Hydroelectricity Project which is under construction. Nabil Bank has been listed among the exclusive league Table of Top 20 Banks published by     IJ Global Magazine under Global Infrastructure and Project Finance category IJ Global  as per  Report Q1 2022. This is a rare recognition for any bank from Nepal to be listed by the premier publication like IJ Global, which is a part of EuroMoney Institutional Investor Business, and considered to be the world's largest infrastructure and project finance data sources. The IJ Global database covers more than 32,000 transactions, 26,000 projects and 2,100 funds that are updated on a daily basis with market coverage of 80% of the top project finance lenders, 90% of the top law firms, and 85% of the top financial advisers. Anil Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank stated, “This recognition showcases Nabil Bank’s prudent credit screening process, expertise in infrastructure financing and demonstrates the Bank’s capabilities specially in energy financing. Nabil Bank has been ranked 14 in the league table which is amongst the G- SIB (Global Systemically Important Banks). Nabil Bank’s listing in the league table significantly enhances the Bank’s market profile and establishes the Bank’s brand in the international market” The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking with 150 branches, 187 ATMs and international market access with over 170 correspondent baking partners. The Bank is at the forefront in infrastructure financing and large loan syndication arrangement in the country. The construction-based industries, viz., cement and steel, banking with us account for nearly 50% of total country’s consumption. The Bank’s exposure in Hydro power sector covers total generation capacity above 1,800 MW. Nabil Bank is also a part of the country’s largest loan syndication arrangement for the 900 MW Arun III Hydroelectricity Project which is under construction. "
2022-05-26,Nabil Bank partners with Nepal Medical Association; associated doctors and employees to receive special banking services,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-partners-with-nepal-medical-association-associated-doctors-and-employees-to-receive-special-banking-services-2022-05-26,"Nabil Bank has inked an MoU with Nepal Medical Association to provide a special banking package to the doctors and employees of the association where the offer is valid in different card services of the bank as well as in other banking services.   The MoU was signed between the Marketing head of the bank Mr Kabin Prasad Shrestha and the chairman of the association Dr. Lochan Karki, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 150 branches, 187 ATM outlets and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents across the nation.  Nabil Bank has inked an MoU with Nepal Medical Association to provide a special banking package to the doctors and employees of the association where the offer is valid in different card services of the bank as well as in other banking services.   The MoU was signed between the Marketing head of the bank Mr Kabin Prasad Shrestha and the chairman of the association Dr. Lochan Karki, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 150 branches, 187 ATM outlets and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents across the nation.  Nabil Bank has inked an MoU with Nepal Medical Association to provide a special banking package to the doctors and employees of the association where the offer is valid in different card services of the bank as well as in other banking services.   The MoU was signed between the Marketing head of the bank Mr Kabin Prasad Shrestha and the chairman of the association Dr. Lochan Karki, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 150 branches, 187 ATM outlets and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents across the nation.  "
2022-05-24,Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana To Be Appointed As New CEO Of Nabil Bank?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/mr-gyanendra-prasad-dhungana-to-be-appointed-as-new-ceo-of-nabil-bank-2022-05-24,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) inked an agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43. The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by the boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078. Recently, a special general meeting of Nabil Bank Limited was held on Jestha 7, 2079 to finalize the procedures for the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank. In this meeting, a final scheme of arrangement/agreement was passed to approve all the works related to the acquisition. As per the final scheme of agreement, it is clarified that the former Chief Executive Officer of the Nepal Bangladesh Bank, Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, will be holding the post of the Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank Limited from 17 Ashad, 2079, which will be maintained after receiving the final agreement approved by the special general meeting.  At present, the Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank Limited is Mr. Anil Keshary Shah. Mr Shah joined Nabil Bank as general manager in April 2004 and then became the CEO in May 2005. On 21 June 2018, he was again appointed as the CEO of Nabil Bank. Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana retired from his role of CEO in Nepal Bangladesh Bank on Poush 16, 2078 while Mr. Bhupendra Pandey was appointed as SR. Deputy CEO on Magh 1, 2078. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) inked an agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43. The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by the boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078. Recently, a special general meeting of Nabil Bank Limited was held on Jestha 7, 2079 to finalize the procedures for the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank. In this meeting, a final scheme of arrangement/agreement was passed to approve all the works related to the acquisition. As per the final scheme of agreement, it is clarified that the former Chief Executive Officer of the Nepal Bangladesh Bank, Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, will be holding the post of the Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank Limited from 17 Ashad, 2079, which will be maintained after receiving the final agreement approved by the special general meeting.  At present, the Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank Limited is Mr. Anil Keshary Shah. Mr Shah joined Nabil Bank as general manager in April 2004 and then became the CEO in May 2005. On 21 June 2018, he was again appointed as the CEO of Nabil Bank. Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana retired from his role of CEO in Nepal Bangladesh Bank on Poush 16, 2078 while Mr. Bhupendra Pandey was appointed as SR. Deputy CEO on Magh 1, 2078. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) inked an agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43. The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by the boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078. Recently, a special general meeting of Nabil Bank Limited was held on Jestha 7, 2079 to finalize the procedures for the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank. In this meeting, a final scheme of arrangement/agreement was passed to approve all the works related to the acquisition. As per the final scheme of agreement, it is clarified that the former Chief Executive Officer of the Nepal Bangladesh Bank, Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana, will be holding the post of the Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank Limited from 17 Ashad, 2079, which will be maintained after receiving the final agreement approved by the special general meeting.  At present, the Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank Limited is Mr. Anil Keshary Shah. Mr Shah joined Nabil Bank as general manager in April 2004 and then became the CEO in May 2005. On 21 June 2018, he was again appointed as the CEO of Nabil Bank. Mr. Gyanendra Prasad Dhungana retired from his role of CEO in Nepal Bangladesh Bank on Poush 16, 2078 while Mr. Bhupendra Pandey was appointed as SR. Deputy CEO on Magh 1, 2078. "
2022-05-22,Details Regarding The Press Release Of Nabil Bank’s Proposed Acquisition Of Nepal Bangladesh Bank,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/details-regarding-the-press-release-of-nabil-banks-proposed-acquisition-of-nepal-bangladesh-bank-2022-05-22,"On May 22, 2022, two large Nepali banks, Nabil Bank Limited and Nepal Bangladesh Bank, issued a press release regarding the commencement of joint operation after the acquisition of the latter by the former.  A special general meeting of Nepal Bangladesh Bank and Nabil Bank Limited was convened yesterday, and a special resolution was passed respecting the Bangladesh bank's takeover by Nabil Bank Limited. The acquisition swap ratio was approved by the extraordinary general meeting at 100:43. This means that stockholders who possess 100 Nepal Bangladesh Bank shares will receive 43 Nabil Bank shares (the company after acquisition). The general meeting also appointed T.R Updhyaya & Co, Chartered Accountant, as the appraiser of the assets, liabilities and transactions of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Ltd in relation to the acquisition.  After the acquisition, Nepal Bangladesh Bank's paid-up capital contribution to the Nabil bank will be 43 percent of NBB's present paid-up capital. As a result, the new company's paid-up capital will be 22.83 arba. Similarly, the loan and deposit amounts will total Rs. 309 arba and Rs. 320 arba respectively. Likewise, the bank's non-fund-based business will grow to Rs. 145 arba. Nabil Bank's branch network will grow to 254 after the acquisition, with a total net profit of Rs. 4.46 arba for the first nine months. Following the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank, Nabil Bank, which has been a market leader in banking services in Nepal, will ensure that Nabil Bank remains at the forefront of a number of indicators, including commercial bank deposits, loans, non-interest income, non-fund based business, and gross profit. Nabil Bank will expand its market presence through innovative services and a larger branch network as a result of this success.   On May 22, 2022, two large Nepali banks, Nabil Bank Limited and Nepal Bangladesh Bank, issued a press release regarding the commencement of joint operation after the acquisition of the latter by the former.  A special general meeting of Nepal Bangladesh Bank and Nabil Bank Limited was convened yesterday, and a special resolution was passed respecting the Bangladesh bank's takeover by Nabil Bank Limited. The acquisition swap ratio was approved by the extraordinary general meeting at 100:43. This means that stockholders who possess 100 Nepal Bangladesh Bank shares will receive 43 Nabil Bank shares (the company after acquisition). The general meeting also appointed T.R Updhyaya & Co, Chartered Accountant, as the appraiser of the assets, liabilities and transactions of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Ltd in relation to the acquisition.  After the acquisition, Nepal Bangladesh Bank's paid-up capital contribution to the Nabil bank will be 43 percent of NBB's present paid-up capital. As a result, the new company's paid-up capital will be 22.83 arba. Similarly, the loan and deposit amounts will total Rs. 309 arba and Rs. 320 arba respectively. Likewise, the bank's non-fund-based business will grow to Rs. 145 arba. Nabil Bank's branch network will grow to 254 after the acquisition, with a total net profit of Rs. 4.46 arba for the first nine months. Following the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank, Nabil Bank, which has been a market leader in banking services in Nepal, will ensure that Nabil Bank remains at the forefront of a number of indicators, including commercial bank deposits, loans, non-interest income, non-fund based business, and gross profit. Nabil Bank will expand its market presence through innovative services and a larger branch network as a result of this success.   On May 22, 2022, two large Nepali banks, Nabil Bank Limited and Nepal Bangladesh Bank, issued a press release regarding the commencement of joint operation after the acquisition of the latter by the former.  A special general meeting of Nepal Bangladesh Bank and Nabil Bank Limited was convened yesterday, and a special resolution was passed respecting the Bangladesh bank's takeover by Nabil Bank Limited. The acquisition swap ratio was approved by the extraordinary general meeting at 100:43. This means that stockholders who possess 100 Nepal Bangladesh Bank shares will receive 43 Nabil Bank shares (the company after acquisition). The general meeting also appointed T.R Updhyaya & Co, Chartered Accountant, as the appraiser of the assets, liabilities and transactions of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Ltd in relation to the acquisition.  After the acquisition, Nepal Bangladesh Bank's paid-up capital contribution to the Nabil bank will be 43 percent of NBB's present paid-up capital. As a result, the new company's paid-up capital will be 22.83 arba. Similarly, the loan and deposit amounts will total Rs. 309 arba and Rs. 320 arba respectively. Likewise, the bank's non-fund-based business will grow to Rs. 145 arba. Nabil Bank's branch network will grow to 254 after the acquisition, with a total net profit of Rs. 4.46 arba for the first nine months. Following the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank, Nabil Bank, which has been a market leader in banking services in Nepal, will ensure that Nabil Bank remains at the forefront of a number of indicators, including commercial bank deposits, loans, non-interest income, non-fund based business, and gross profit. Nabil Bank will expand its market presence through innovative services and a larger branch network as a result of this success.   "
2022-05-19,Nabil Bank signs MoU with Office of Investment Board Nepal; to promote FDIs by providing advisory service to these investors,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-signs-mou-with-office-of-investment-board-nepal-to-promote-fdis-by-providing-advisory-service-to-these-investors-2022-05-19,"Nabil Bank has entered into a partnership with the Office of Investment Board Nepal to foster economic development in Nepal through promotion of Foreign Direct Investment. Under this agreement, Nabil Bank has partnered with the Office of Investment Board Nepal (OIBN) to provide advisory service to foreign investors, promote foreign direct investment through organization and participation at various promotional programs to showcase investment opportunities in Nepal.  The MoU was signed by Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Nabil Bank’s Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Sushil Bhatta, Investment Board Nepal’s Chief Executive Officer during a signing ceremony organized today. According to Mr. Bhatta, the banking sector plays a vital role in attracting foreign investments due to which OIBN has joined hands with Nabil Bank for the first time. Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Chairman emphasized on the Bank’s focus on building a sustainable nation along with sustainable banking. Similarly, Mr. Shah stated that Nabil Bank is proud to be the official financial advisor of a prestigious institution such as the Office of Investment Board Nepal. This partnership reflects Nabil Bank and OIBN’s shared commitment to jointly promote economic development of Nepal by attracting foreign investors and bridge the gaps of sustainable resource in the country to develop infrastructure projects, Green field avenues, Energy sector promotion, Green financing, and so on. Nabil Bank Limited is the nation’s first private sector bank, established in 1984 AD. The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 150 branch offices, 187 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 170 international correspondent banking relationships. Nabil Bank has entered into a partnership with the Office of Investment Board Nepal to foster economic development in Nepal through promotion of Foreign Direct Investment. Under this agreement, Nabil Bank has partnered with the Office of Investment Board Nepal (OIBN) to provide advisory service to foreign investors, promote foreign direct investment through organization and participation at various promotional programs to showcase investment opportunities in Nepal.  The MoU was signed by Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Nabil Bank’s Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Sushil Bhatta, Investment Board Nepal’s Chief Executive Officer during a signing ceremony organized today. According to Mr. Bhatta, the banking sector plays a vital role in attracting foreign investments due to which OIBN has joined hands with Nabil Bank for the first time. Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Chairman emphasized on the Bank’s focus on building a sustainable nation along with sustainable banking. Similarly, Mr. Shah stated that Nabil Bank is proud to be the official financial advisor of a prestigious institution such as the Office of Investment Board Nepal. This partnership reflects Nabil Bank and OIBN’s shared commitment to jointly promote economic development of Nepal by attracting foreign investors and bridge the gaps of sustainable resource in the country to develop infrastructure projects, Green field avenues, Energy sector promotion, Green financing, and so on. Nabil Bank Limited is the nation’s first private sector bank, established in 1984 AD. The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 150 branch offices, 187 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 170 international correspondent banking relationships. Nabil Bank has entered into a partnership with the Office of Investment Board Nepal to foster economic development in Nepal through promotion of Foreign Direct Investment. Under this agreement, Nabil Bank has partnered with the Office of Investment Board Nepal (OIBN) to provide advisory service to foreign investors, promote foreign direct investment through organization and participation at various promotional programs to showcase investment opportunities in Nepal.  The MoU was signed by Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Nabil Bank’s Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Sushil Bhatta, Investment Board Nepal’s Chief Executive Officer during a signing ceremony organized today. According to Mr. Bhatta, the banking sector plays a vital role in attracting foreign investments due to which OIBN has joined hands with Nabil Bank for the first time. Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Chairman emphasized on the Bank’s focus on building a sustainable nation along with sustainable banking. Similarly, Mr. Shah stated that Nabil Bank is proud to be the official financial advisor of a prestigious institution such as the Office of Investment Board Nepal. This partnership reflects Nabil Bank and OIBN’s shared commitment to jointly promote economic development of Nepal by attracting foreign investors and bridge the gaps of sustainable resource in the country to develop infrastructure projects, Green field avenues, Energy sector promotion, Green financing, and so on. Nabil Bank Limited is the nation’s first private sector bank, established in 1984 AD. The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 150 branch offices, 187 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 170 international correspondent banking relationships. "
2022-05-15,Nabil Bank ties up with Payment Nepal  for UPI Gateway Payment Service; to boost digital cross-boarder transactions between Nepal and India,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-ties-up-with-payment-nepal-for-upi-gateway-payment-service-to-boost-digital-cross-boarder-transactions-between-nepal-and-india-2022-05-15,"Nabil Bank has partnered with Payment Nepal (Gateway Payment Service Pvt. Ltd, a Payment System Operator licensed by Nepal Rastra Bank) to offer acceptance of its mobile-based real-time payment system, Unified Payments Interface (UPI), in Nepal. UPI is an instant real-time payment system developed by National Payments Corporation of India facilitating inter-bank and cross border transactions. This partnership will enable millions of Nepalese and Indians who travel across the borders every year to make seamless payments related to their health, education and business services using UPI-based mobile applications across shops and merchant stores in both the nations. The partnership agreement was signed by Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank and Mr. Rajesh Prasad Manandhar, Chief Executive Officer of Gateway Payment Service. This partnership empowers Nabil Bank’s mobile banking users to make safe and seamless payments across merchant stores in India. Similarly, merchants associated and enabled with Nabil UPI QR can accept payments from Indian tourists using UPI based mobile apps including PhonePay, Google Pay, and Paytm. Nabil Bank Limited is the nation’s first private sector bank, established in 1984 AD. The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 150 branch offices, 187 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 170 international correspondent banking relationships. Nabil Bank has partnered with Payment Nepal (Gateway Payment Service Pvt. Ltd, a Payment System Operator licensed by Nepal Rastra Bank) to offer acceptance of its mobile-based real-time payment system, Unified Payments Interface (UPI), in Nepal. UPI is an instant real-time payment system developed by National Payments Corporation of India facilitating inter-bank and cross border transactions. This partnership will enable millions of Nepalese and Indians who travel across the borders every year to make seamless payments related to their health, education and business services using UPI-based mobile applications across shops and merchant stores in both the nations. The partnership agreement was signed by Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank and Mr. Rajesh Prasad Manandhar, Chief Executive Officer of Gateway Payment Service. This partnership empowers Nabil Bank’s mobile banking users to make safe and seamless payments across merchant stores in India. Similarly, merchants associated and enabled with Nabil UPI QR can accept payments from Indian tourists using UPI based mobile apps including PhonePay, Google Pay, and Paytm. Nabil Bank Limited is the nation’s first private sector bank, established in 1984 AD. The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 150 branch offices, 187 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 170 international correspondent banking relationships. Nabil Bank has partnered with Payment Nepal (Gateway Payment Service Pvt. Ltd, a Payment System Operator licensed by Nepal Rastra Bank) to offer acceptance of its mobile-based real-time payment system, Unified Payments Interface (UPI), in Nepal. UPI is an instant real-time payment system developed by National Payments Corporation of India facilitating inter-bank and cross border transactions. This partnership will enable millions of Nepalese and Indians who travel across the borders every year to make seamless payments related to their health, education and business services using UPI-based mobile applications across shops and merchant stores in both the nations. The partnership agreement was signed by Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank and Mr. Rajesh Prasad Manandhar, Chief Executive Officer of Gateway Payment Service. This partnership empowers Nabil Bank’s mobile banking users to make safe and seamless payments across merchant stores in India. Similarly, merchants associated and enabled with Nabil UPI QR can accept payments from Indian tourists using UPI based mobile apps including PhonePay, Google Pay, and Paytm. Nabil Bank Limited is the nation’s first private sector bank, established in 1984 AD. The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 150 branch offices, 187 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 170 international correspondent banking relationships. "
2022-05-09,Nabil Bank rewards ‘Shree Shambhu Prasad Poudyal Memorial Scholarship’ to the children of its employees,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-rewards-shree-shambhu-prasad-poudyal-memorial-scholarship-to-the-children-of-its-employees-2022-05-09,"In memory and honor of Nabil Bank’s former Chairman, the Late Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal, the Bank has launched “Shree Shambhu Prasad Poudyal Memorial Scholarship” for its employees from this year. The Late Mr. Poudyal was an exceptional leader and guardian of the Bank who has made untiring contributions towards the Bank.  Through this scholarship program, the Bank aims to promote a learning culture amongst the children of employees of Nabil Bank. Nabil Bank’s all employees are eligible to nominate their children for this scholarship program who have completed their Plus 2 level examination organized by the National Examination Board, Government of Nepal in the first attempt. Under this scholarship program, two male students and two female students who have scored the highest grades in Plus 2 level will be awarded scholarships worth NRs. 50,000 each. For the year 2077/78, the Bank has rewarded scholarships to the following students on merit basis. During a formal event organized at Nabil Bank’s head office, Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Chairman handed over the scholarship amounts along with certificates of appreciation to all three winners in the presence of the Bank’s board members, senior management, family of former Chairman, and parents of the scholarship winners. Speaking about the scholarship program, Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal expressed his appreciation towards the important contributions made by the Late Shambhu Prasad Poudyal. Furthermore, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah mentioned that the former chairman played an instrumental role for the growth and evolution of Nabil Bank and Nabilians over the decades. In memory and honor of Nabil Bank’s former Chairman, the Late Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal, the Bank has launched “Shree Shambhu Prasad Poudyal Memorial Scholarship” for its employees from this year. The Late Mr. Poudyal was an exceptional leader and guardian of the Bank who has made untiring contributions towards the Bank.  Through this scholarship program, the Bank aims to promote a learning culture amongst the children of employees of Nabil Bank. Nabil Bank’s all employees are eligible to nominate their children for this scholarship program who have completed their Plus 2 level examination organized by the National Examination Board, Government of Nepal in the first attempt. Under this scholarship program, two male students and two female students who have scored the highest grades in Plus 2 level will be awarded scholarships worth NRs. 50,000 each. For the year 2077/78, the Bank has rewarded scholarships to the following students on merit basis. During a formal event organized at Nabil Bank’s head office, Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Chairman handed over the scholarship amounts along with certificates of appreciation to all three winners in the presence of the Bank’s board members, senior management, family of former Chairman, and parents of the scholarship winners. Speaking about the scholarship program, Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal expressed his appreciation towards the important contributions made by the Late Shambhu Prasad Poudyal. Furthermore, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah mentioned that the former chairman played an instrumental role for the growth and evolution of Nabil Bank and Nabilians over the decades. In memory and honor of Nabil Bank’s former Chairman, the Late Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal, the Bank has launched “Shree Shambhu Prasad Poudyal Memorial Scholarship” for its employees from this year. The Late Mr. Poudyal was an exceptional leader and guardian of the Bank who has made untiring contributions towards the Bank.  Through this scholarship program, the Bank aims to promote a learning culture amongst the children of employees of Nabil Bank. Nabil Bank’s all employees are eligible to nominate their children for this scholarship program who have completed their Plus 2 level examination organized by the National Examination Board, Government of Nepal in the first attempt. Under this scholarship program, two male students and two female students who have scored the highest grades in Plus 2 level will be awarded scholarships worth NRs. 50,000 each. For the year 2077/78, the Bank has rewarded scholarships to the following students on merit basis. During a formal event organized at Nabil Bank’s head office, Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Chairman handed over the scholarship amounts along with certificates of appreciation to all three winners in the presence of the Bank’s board members, senior management, family of former Chairman, and parents of the scholarship winners. Speaking about the scholarship program, Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal expressed his appreciation towards the important contributions made by the Late Shambhu Prasad Poudyal. Furthermore, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah mentioned that the former chairman played an instrumental role for the growth and evolution of Nabil Bank and Nabilians over the decades. "
2022-05-08,Nabil Bank becomes first and only Bank in Nepal to get listed under Export Credit Guarantee Program GSM 102 of US Department of Agriculture,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-becomes-first-and-only-bank-in-nepal-to-get-listed-under-export-credit-guarantee-program-gsm-102-of-us-department-of-agriculture-2022-05-08,"Nabil bank has established an arrangement with the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) to enlist the bank under export credit guarantee program GSM 102 administered by the USDA. Nabil Bank is the first and only bank from Nepal to be listed under this program after rigorous Due Diligence Audit from USDA office. With this arrangement, Nabil bank will enjoy an Export Credit Guarantee line limits from USDA. Letter of Credits issued by Nabil Bank on behalf of its customers to import goods under USDA program will have no further requirement of adding confirmation from third parties. Furthermore, US exporters under this arrangement can avail financing facilities from US banks with underlying irrevocable Letter of Credit issued by Nabil Bank. Getting listed under Export Credit Guarantee Program of state run organization of the United States, USDA (United States Department of Agriculture) is another milestone for Nabil bank in its effort to establish its international outreach and recognition at a global stage. Nabil Bank Limited is the nation’s first private sector bank, established in 1984 AD, The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 148 branch offices, 187 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 170 international correspondent banking relationships. Nabil bank has established an arrangement with the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) to enlist the bank under export credit guarantee program GSM 102 administered by the USDA. Nabil Bank is the first and only bank from Nepal to be listed under this program after rigorous Due Diligence Audit from USDA office. With this arrangement, Nabil bank will enjoy an Export Credit Guarantee line limits from USDA. Letter of Credits issued by Nabil Bank on behalf of its customers to import goods under USDA program will have no further requirement of adding confirmation from third parties. Furthermore, US exporters under this arrangement can avail financing facilities from US banks with underlying irrevocable Letter of Credit issued by Nabil Bank. Getting listed under Export Credit Guarantee Program of state run organization of the United States, USDA (United States Department of Agriculture) is another milestone for Nabil bank in its effort to establish its international outreach and recognition at a global stage. Nabil Bank Limited is the nation’s first private sector bank, established in 1984 AD, The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 148 branch offices, 187 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 170 international correspondent banking relationships. Nabil bank has established an arrangement with the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) to enlist the bank under export credit guarantee program GSM 102 administered by the USDA. Nabil Bank is the first and only bank from Nepal to be listed under this program after rigorous Due Diligence Audit from USDA office. With this arrangement, Nabil bank will enjoy an Export Credit Guarantee line limits from USDA. Letter of Credits issued by Nabil Bank on behalf of its customers to import goods under USDA program will have no further requirement of adding confirmation from third parties. Furthermore, US exporters under this arrangement can avail financing facilities from US banks with underlying irrevocable Letter of Credit issued by Nabil Bank. Getting listed under Export Credit Guarantee Program of state run organization of the United States, USDA (United States Department of Agriculture) is another milestone for Nabil bank in its effort to establish its international outreach and recognition at a global stage. Nabil Bank Limited is the nation’s first private sector bank, established in 1984 AD, The Bank serves a complete line of commercial banking products through branch banking, treasury, trade, cards, remittance and investment banking. The Bank operates through a network of 148 branch offices, 187 ATMs, numerous POS terminals, remittance agents spread across the nation and over 170 international correspondent banking relationships. "
2022-05-06,Nabil Bank and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Call SGM to Endorse Acquisition and Share Swap Ratio,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-nepal-bangladesh-bank-call-sgm-to-endorse-acquisition-and-share-swap-ratio-2022-05-06,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) have published notice for Special General Meeting (SGM) today i.e 23rd Baisakh, 2079. According to 389th board meeting of NBB, SGM will be held on Jestha 07, 2079 from 11 AM onwards via Zoom Cloud Meetings.  Similarly, NABIL's SGM will also be held on Jestha 07, 2079 from 11 AM onwards at the premises of Silver Oak Banquet/ Event Centre, Gairidhara, Kathmandu. The primary agenda of both SGMs is to endorse the merger of the two commercial banks. The meeting will assess the Due Diligence Audit (DDA) Report to be presented by PKF T R Upadhayay and will provide the final approval for the acquisition and also approve a 100:43 swap ratio (NBB Bank 100 units = NABIL 43 units).  The book closure in on 30th Baisakh, 2079. Thus, investors maintained before that day are eligible to attend the SGM. NBB SGM Notice: NABIL SGM Notice:   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) have published notice for Special General Meeting (SGM) today i.e 23rd Baisakh, 2079. According to 389th board meeting of NBB, SGM will be held on Jestha 07, 2079 from 11 AM onwards via Zoom Cloud Meetings.  Similarly, NABIL's SGM will also be held on Jestha 07, 2079 from 11 AM onwards at the premises of Silver Oak Banquet/ Event Centre, Gairidhara, Kathmandu. The primary agenda of both SGMs is to endorse the merger of the two commercial banks. The meeting will assess the Due Diligence Audit (DDA) Report to be presented by PKF T R Upadhayay and will provide the final approval for the acquisition and also approve a 100:43 swap ratio (NBB Bank 100 units = NABIL 43 units).  The book closure in on 30th Baisakh, 2079. Thus, investors maintained before that day are eligible to attend the SGM. NBB SGM Notice: NABIL SGM Notice:   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) have published notice for Special General Meeting (SGM) today i.e 23rd Baisakh, 2079. According to 389th board meeting of NBB, SGM will be held on Jestha 07, 2079 from 11 AM onwards via Zoom Cloud Meetings.  Similarly, NABIL's SGM will also be held on Jestha 07, 2079 from 11 AM onwards at the premises of Silver Oak Banquet/ Event Centre, Gairidhara, Kathmandu. The primary agenda of both SGMs is to endorse the merger of the two commercial banks. The meeting will assess the Due Diligence Audit (DDA) Report to be presented by PKF T R Upadhayay and will provide the final approval for the acquisition and also approve a 100:43 swap ratio (NBB Bank 100 units = NABIL 43 units).  The book closure in on 30th Baisakh, 2079. Thus, investors maintained before that day are eligible to attend the SGM. NBB SGM Notice: NABIL SGM Notice:   "
2022-05-03,Do All Commercial Banks Maintain Minimum CAR and Core Capital (Tier-I) Prescribed by Nepal Rastra Bank?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/do-all-commercial-banks-maintain-minimum-car-and-core-capital-tier-i-prescribed-by-nepal-rastra-bank-2022-05-03,"Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) refers to the statutory minimum reserve of capital that the BFI's must maintain. Thus, all the banks and financial institutions must maintain the minimum level of capital as per the NRB directives. It also refers to the measure of bank capital, which is expressed in the percentage of the risk-weighted asset. The capital of the bank can be divided into two headings: Tier I (Core) Capital and Tier II (Supplementary) Capital. Tier 1 Capital: Fully paid up, no fixed servicing or dividend cost, freely available to absorb the loss, high degree of permanence. Includes common equity capital, additional tier 1 capital Tier 2 Capital: includes reserves that have been passed through the profit and loss account and all other capital instruments eligible and acceptable for capital purposes. Eg: general loan loss provision, revaluation reserve, exchange equalization reserve, redeemable preference share, and so on. The amount of tier-2 capital shall not exceed tier 1 capital. Total Capital: Sum of Tier I and Tier 2 capital Capital Conservation Buffer (CCB): It is a capital buffer of 2.5% of an institution's total exposures that need to be met with an additional amount of Common Equity Tier 1 capital. The capital conservation buffer is intended to ensure that firms build up buffers of capital outside any periods of stress and is designed to avoid breaches of minimum capital requirements. Countercyclical Buffer (CCyB): It is a surcharge on the banks’ common equity Tier 1 capital designed to counter the pro-cyclicality of the financial system. The supervisory authority may establish a positive CCyB rate if the aggregate domestic credit growth is excessive. Once the credit growth has returned to normal or the banks suffer losses, the CCyB rate can be decreased to as far as zero. The CCB, therefore, provides banks with an additional capital buffer for difficult times. It ranges from 0 to 2.5%. At present, CCyB stands at 2% in Nepal. However, the provision of a countercyclical buffer set by Capital Adequacy Framework, 2015 is suspended by NRB through its directive till the fiscal year 2078/79. In Nepal, unlike BASEL III recommendation, NRB has increased the Minimum Total Capital Ratio (MTC) to 8.5% from 8% of total risk-weighted assets (RWA), thus increasing the total capital adequacy ratio to 11% from 10.5%.  Nepal adopted Basel III from the year July 2015 in a phased manner. The table below shows the capital ratios after the full implementation of Basel III in Nepalese commercial banks. Notes: Core Capital (Tier-I),  Supplementary Capital (Tier-II), Capital Adequacy Ratio as of Chaitra end 2078: According to the latest reports published by banks, all 27 banks have maintained the required minimum Capital Adequacy Ratio of 11% mandated by Nepal Rastra Bank. Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) has the highest CAR of 15.90% whereas Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) has the lowest CAR of 11.61%. Also, all the banks have maintained the required minimum Core capital (Tier-1) of 8.5% set by Nepal Rastra Bank. NIC Asia Bank and Prabhu Bank have the lowest Core Capital of 8.54% and 8.70% respectively. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the highest total risk-weighted exposure of Rs 3.08 Kharba. Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) refers to the statutory minimum reserve of capital that the BFI's must maintain. Thus, all the banks and financial institutions must maintain the minimum level of capital as per the NRB directives. It also refers to the measure of bank capital, which is expressed in the percentage of the risk-weighted asset. The capital of the bank can be divided into two headings: Tier I (Core) Capital and Tier II (Supplementary) Capital. Tier 1 Capital: Fully paid up, no fixed servicing or dividend cost, freely available to absorb the loss, high degree of permanence. Includes common equity capital, additional tier 1 capital Tier 2 Capital: includes reserves that have been passed through the profit and loss account and all other capital instruments eligible and acceptable for capital purposes. Eg: general loan loss provision, revaluation reserve, exchange equalization reserve, redeemable preference share, and so on. The amount of tier-2 capital shall not exceed tier 1 capital. Total Capital: Sum of Tier I and Tier 2 capital Capital Conservation Buffer (CCB): It is a capital buffer of 2.5% of an institution's total exposures that need to be met with an additional amount of Common Equity Tier 1 capital. The capital conservation buffer is intended to ensure that firms build up buffers of capital outside any periods of stress and is designed to avoid breaches of minimum capital requirements. Countercyclical Buffer (CCyB): It is a surcharge on the banks’ common equity Tier 1 capital designed to counter the pro-cyclicality of the financial system. The supervisory authority may establish a positive CCyB rate if the aggregate domestic credit growth is excessive. Once the credit growth has returned to normal or the banks suffer losses, the CCyB rate can be decreased to as far as zero. The CCB, therefore, provides banks with an additional capital buffer for difficult times. It ranges from 0 to 2.5%. At present, CCyB stands at 2% in Nepal. However, the provision of a countercyclical buffer set by Capital Adequacy Framework, 2015 is suspended by NRB through its directive till the fiscal year 2078/79. In Nepal, unlike BASEL III recommendation, NRB has increased the Minimum Total Capital Ratio (MTC) to 8.5% from 8% of total risk-weighted assets (RWA), thus increasing the total capital adequacy ratio to 11% from 10.5%.  Nepal adopted Basel III from the year July 2015 in a phased manner. The table below shows the capital ratios after the full implementation of Basel III in Nepalese commercial banks. Notes: Core Capital (Tier-I),  Supplementary Capital (Tier-II), Capital Adequacy Ratio as of Chaitra end 2078: According to the latest reports published by banks, all 27 banks have maintained the required minimum Capital Adequacy Ratio of 11% mandated by Nepal Rastra Bank. Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) has the highest CAR of 15.90% whereas Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) has the lowest CAR of 11.61%. Also, all the banks have maintained the required minimum Core capital (Tier-1) of 8.5% set by Nepal Rastra Bank. NIC Asia Bank and Prabhu Bank have the lowest Core Capital of 8.54% and 8.70% respectively. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the highest total risk-weighted exposure of Rs 3.08 Kharba. Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) refers to the statutory minimum reserve of capital that the BFI's must maintain. Thus, all the banks and financial institutions must maintain the minimum level of capital as per the NRB directives. It also refers to the measure of bank capital, which is expressed in the percentage of the risk-weighted asset. The capital of the bank can be divided into two headings: Tier I (Core) Capital and Tier II (Supplementary) Capital. Tier 1 Capital: Fully paid up, no fixed servicing or dividend cost, freely available to absorb the loss, high degree of permanence. Includes common equity capital, additional tier 1 capital Tier 2 Capital: includes reserves that have been passed through the profit and loss account and all other capital instruments eligible and acceptable for capital purposes. Eg: general loan loss provision, revaluation reserve, exchange equalization reserve, redeemable preference share, and so on. The amount of tier-2 capital shall not exceed tier 1 capital. Total Capital: Sum of Tier I and Tier 2 capital Capital Conservation Buffer (CCB): It is a capital buffer of 2.5% of an institution's total exposures that need to be met with an additional amount of Common Equity Tier 1 capital. The capital conservation buffer is intended to ensure that firms build up buffers of capital outside any periods of stress and is designed to avoid breaches of minimum capital requirements. Countercyclical Buffer (CCyB): It is a surcharge on the banks’ common equity Tier 1 capital designed to counter the pro-cyclicality of the financial system. The supervisory authority may establish a positive CCyB rate if the aggregate domestic credit growth is excessive. Once the credit growth has returned to normal or the banks suffer losses, the CCyB rate can be decreased to as far as zero. The CCB, therefore, provides banks with an additional capital buffer for difficult times. It ranges from 0 to 2.5%. At present, CCyB stands at 2% in Nepal. However, the provision of a countercyclical buffer set by Capital Adequacy Framework, 2015 is suspended by NRB through its directive till the fiscal year 2078/79. In Nepal, unlike BASEL III recommendation, NRB has increased the Minimum Total Capital Ratio (MTC) to 8.5% from 8% of total risk-weighted assets (RWA), thus increasing the total capital adequacy ratio to 11% from 10.5%.  Nepal adopted Basel III from the year July 2015 in a phased manner. The table below shows the capital ratios after the full implementation of Basel III in Nepalese commercial banks. Notes: Core Capital (Tier-I),  Supplementary Capital (Tier-II), Capital Adequacy Ratio as of Chaitra end 2078: According to the latest reports published by banks, all 27 banks have maintained the required minimum Capital Adequacy Ratio of 11% mandated by Nepal Rastra Bank. Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) has the highest CAR of 15.90% whereas Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) has the lowest CAR of 11.61%. Also, all the banks have maintained the required minimum Core capital (Tier-1) of 8.5% set by Nepal Rastra Bank. NIC Asia Bank and Prabhu Bank have the lowest Core Capital of 8.54% and 8.70% respectively. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the highest total risk-weighted exposure of Rs 3.08 Kharba. "
2022-05-01,Nabil Bank receives National HR Excellence Award 2022; employee-friendly work culture in the bank gains due recognition,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-receives-national-hr-excellence-award-2022-employee-friendly-work-culture-in-the-bank-gains-due-recognition-2022-05-01,"Nabil Bank has received National HR Excellence Award 2022 from Growth Shelter, the consultancy service provider in HR management.  The bank has received such a recognition for the high priority it gives for the job satisfaction of its employees, as per the media statement. the award was received by CEO of the bank Mr. Anil Kesari Shah, Deputy CEO Mr. Binay Kumar Regmi, HR head Mr. Roshan Koirala among others. Nabil bank is providing the services through wide domestic network of 148 branches, ATM network of 188 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe and has assured to be the “1st Choice provider of complete financial solutions”. Nabil Bank has received National HR Excellence Award 2022 from Growth Shelter, the consultancy service provider in HR management.  The bank has received such a recognition for the high priority it gives for the job satisfaction of its employees, as per the media statement. the award was received by CEO of the bank Mr. Anil Kesari Shah, Deputy CEO Mr. Binay Kumar Regmi, HR head Mr. Roshan Koirala among others. Nabil bank is providing the services through wide domestic network of 148 branches, ATM network of 188 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe and has assured to be the “1st Choice provider of complete financial solutions”. Nabil Bank has received National HR Excellence Award 2022 from Growth Shelter, the consultancy service provider in HR management.  The bank has received such a recognition for the high priority it gives for the job satisfaction of its employees, as per the media statement. the award was received by CEO of the bank Mr. Anil Kesari Shah, Deputy CEO Mr. Binay Kumar Regmi, HR head Mr. Roshan Koirala among others. Nabil bank is providing the services through wide domestic network of 148 branches, ATM network of 188 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe and has assured to be the “1st Choice provider of complete financial solutions”. "
2022-05-01,Detailed Summary Of Dividends Distributed By Sectors Listed In Nepse For FY-77/78 With Exact Dividend Figures,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/detailed-summary-of-dividends-distributed-by-sectors-listed-in-nepse-for-fy-7778-with-exact-dividend-figures-2022-05-01,"Companies listed in NEPSE have declared the dividend (both cash and bonus) for the fiscal year 2078/79. Proposed Dividend is the dividends that are distributed among the shareholders of the company during a financial year and will be paid in the Next Year. Hence, the dividends of last FY-77/78 are distributed in this FY-78/79. Investors do not just earn from the rise in the share price of their portfolio stocks. They also earn from the dividend and bonuses announced by the company from time to time. Hence, it becomes important for secondary market enthusiasts to know the names of stocks that are going to pay dividends in near future. Note for Beginners: You can buy the shares of a company after it has proposed its dividend and still be eligible to get the dividend. In other words, you do not have to invest in the company for one whole fiscal year, which is a misconception among amateur investors. The book closure date is simply the date on which the company closes its books for the dividend. Investors can still buy the shares after that date but they won’t get the dividend. To get the dividend of the company, you must buy the shares before the book closure date and you must not sell those shares till the book closure date. For example, investors can buy the shares of a company on the last day before its book closure date and still be entitled to the dividend. The investor remains eligible even if they sell the shares at the book closure date. Commercial Banks 26 commercial banks have already proposed the dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. Among them, Nabil Bank has proposed the highest dividend, i.e. 38%. Similarly, Nepal SBI bank and Civil Bank have paid the least dividend, i.e. 5.31% and 5.26% respectively. However, the book closure date for dividends of these companies has already elapsed, meaning investors won't be able to claim the dividend of these companies.  Cash and bonus dividends of companies proposed by the companies listed at NEPSE in the Fiscal Year 2077-78 are as given below. Development Banks Similarly, 9 of the total 16 development banks listed in NEPSE have declared the dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. The book closure dates for all of them have already elapsed. As of now, Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank Limited (MLBL) and Kamana Sewa Bikas Bank Limited (KSBBL) has paid the highest dividend viz. 21.0526 and 19.47% respectively. Accordingly, Shangrila Development Bank Limited (SADBL) has paid the least dividend of 10.5263%. Finance Out of the listed finance corporations in Nepal, Manjushree Finance Limited remains at the topmost list by paying a dividend of 46%, which is then followed by Reliance Finance Limited which accumulated 15.79% as proposed dividend in the F.Y-77/78. However, the book closure date of all of the following finance sectors has already elapsed. Micro-Finance 46 microfinance companies listed in NEPSE have declared the dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. Jeevan Bikas Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (JBLB) paid the highest dividend of 73.68% followed by Mahila Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (MLBSL) paying 50% of the dividend (Both bonuses as well as cash). However, 2 out of the 46 microfinance companies are yet to declare their book closure; KLBSL and WNLB. Hydropower Out of the 40 listed hydropower companies till FY 77/78, 14 hydropower companies have declared the dividend. As of now, Ngadi Group Power Limited has paid the highest, i.e. 21.05%. The book closure date of all 14 hydropower companies has elapsed. Mutual Funds 21 mutual funds have also unveiled the dividend. Global IME Samunnat Scheme 1 (GIMES1) proposed the highest (100% cash dividend) for the fiscal year. However, the book closure date of all of these funds has elapsed. Investments Meanwhile, out of 5 listed only 3 investment companies have declared their dividend of FY-77/78.  Merchant Bank 18 merchant banks have declared their dividends comprising of both cash as well as bonus dividends. Global IME capital remains at the top position while distributing its dividends. Whereas, Century capital market limited declared the least dividend of 10% only.  Non-Life Insurance Out of the 20 non-life insurance in Nepal, 18 insurance companies are listed in NEPSE. Sagarmatha Insurance Company Limited has the highest dividend payout scale of 21.05%, whereas the lowest remains for Everest Insurance company. Both of these sectors have recently announced the date as their book closure date. Meanwhile, 2 out of the listed insurance company are yet to disclose their book closure date. Others In the same way, NTC (Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited) also unveiled their dividend. As shown, NTC declared a dividend. However, the book closure dates for the said dividend have already elapsed. Trading Salt trading corporation of trading sector distributed dividend of 10.5%, consisting of both bonus as well as cash dividend for the FY 77/78. Manufacturing and products Out of the four companies in manufacturing & products sector, Unilever Nepal Limited declared a highest dividend of 650%, which is wholly cash based. Also, HDL and NLO are yet to declare their bonus listing dates. Note: For the year 2077/78, none of the companies from two sectors viz Hotel and Tourism, and Life insurance sectors have declare their proposed dividends. Disclaimer: This article is intended to keep investors updated about the dividends declared by companies till now. It can be used to compare the trend of dividend proposals among companies and sectors. However, it should be noted that the dividend amount isn't the only valuation metric, and depending on it solely may result in speculation errors. Hence, higher dividend-paying stocks may already have a higher market price (hence reducing the profitability of buying). Additionally, it is not owning more of something that has little value. Investors in NEPSE are overly attracted to bonus shares distribution, almost as if that is all that matters. As the legendary investor Mark Cuban puts it, a small stake in watermelon is more than 100% of a grape. Companies listed in NEPSE have declared the dividend (both cash and bonus) for the fiscal year 2078/79. Proposed Dividend is the dividends that are distributed among the shareholders of the company during a financial year and will be paid in the Next Year. Hence, the dividends of last FY-77/78 are distributed in this FY-78/79. Investors do not just earn from the rise in the share price of their portfolio stocks. They also earn from the dividend and bonuses announced by the company from time to time. Hence, it becomes important for secondary market enthusiasts to know the names of stocks that are going to pay dividends in near future. Note for Beginners: You can buy the shares of a company after it has proposed its dividend and still be eligible to get the dividend. In other words, you do not have to invest in the company for one whole fiscal year, which is a misconception among amateur investors. The book closure date is simply the date on which the company closes its books for the dividend. Investors can still buy the shares after that date but they won’t get the dividend. To get the dividend of the company, you must buy the shares before the book closure date and you must not sell those shares till the book closure date. For example, investors can buy the shares of a company on the last day before its book closure date and still be entitled to the dividend. The investor remains eligible even if they sell the shares at the book closure date. Commercial Banks 26 commercial banks have already proposed the dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. Among them, Nabil Bank has proposed the highest dividend, i.e. 38%. Similarly, Nepal SBI bank and Civil Bank have paid the least dividend, i.e. 5.31% and 5.26% respectively. However, the book closure date for dividends of these companies has already elapsed, meaning investors won't be able to claim the dividend of these companies.  Cash and bonus dividends of companies proposed by the companies listed at NEPSE in the Fiscal Year 2077-78 are as given below. Development Banks Similarly, 9 of the total 16 development banks listed in NEPSE have declared the dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. The book closure dates for all of them have already elapsed. As of now, Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank Limited (MLBL) and Kamana Sewa Bikas Bank Limited (KSBBL) has paid the highest dividend viz. 21.0526 and 19.47% respectively. Accordingly, Shangrila Development Bank Limited (SADBL) has paid the least dividend of 10.5263%. Finance Out of the listed finance corporations in Nepal, Manjushree Finance Limited remains at the topmost list by paying a dividend of 46%, which is then followed by Reliance Finance Limited which accumulated 15.79% as proposed dividend in the F.Y-77/78. However, the book closure date of all of the following finance sectors has already elapsed. Micro-Finance 46 microfinance companies listed in NEPSE have declared the dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. Jeevan Bikas Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (JBLB) paid the highest dividend of 73.68% followed by Mahila Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (MLBSL) paying 50% of the dividend (Both bonuses as well as cash). However, 2 out of the 46 microfinance companies are yet to declare their book closure; KLBSL and WNLB. Hydropower Out of the 40 listed hydropower companies till FY 77/78, 14 hydropower companies have declared the dividend. As of now, Ngadi Group Power Limited has paid the highest, i.e. 21.05%. The book closure date of all 14 hydropower companies has elapsed. Mutual Funds 21 mutual funds have also unveiled the dividend. Global IME Samunnat Scheme 1 (GIMES1) proposed the highest (100% cash dividend) for the fiscal year. However, the book closure date of all of these funds has elapsed. Investments Meanwhile, out of 5 listed only 3 investment companies have declared their dividend of FY-77/78.  Merchant Bank 18 merchant banks have declared their dividends comprising of both cash as well as bonus dividends. Global IME capital remains at the top position while distributing its dividends. Whereas, Century capital market limited declared the least dividend of 10% only.  Non-Life Insurance Out of the 20 non-life insurance in Nepal, 18 insurance companies are listed in NEPSE. Sagarmatha Insurance Company Limited has the highest dividend payout scale of 21.05%, whereas the lowest remains for Everest Insurance company. Both of these sectors have recently announced the date as their book closure date. Meanwhile, 2 out of the listed insurance company are yet to disclose their book closure date. Others In the same way, NTC (Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited) also unveiled their dividend. As shown, NTC declared a dividend. However, the book closure dates for the said dividend have already elapsed. Trading Salt trading corporation of trading sector distributed dividend of 10.5%, consisting of both bonus as well as cash dividend for the FY 77/78. Manufacturing and products Out of the four companies in manufacturing & products sector, Unilever Nepal Limited declared a highest dividend of 650%, which is wholly cash based. Also, HDL and NLO are yet to declare their bonus listing dates. Note: For the year 2077/78, none of the companies from two sectors viz Hotel and Tourism, and Life insurance sectors have declare their proposed dividends. Disclaimer: This article is intended to keep investors updated about the dividends declared by companies till now. It can be used to compare the trend of dividend proposals among companies and sectors. However, it should be noted that the dividend amount isn't the only valuation metric, and depending on it solely may result in speculation errors. Hence, higher dividend-paying stocks may already have a higher market price (hence reducing the profitability of buying). Additionally, it is not owning more of something that has little value. Investors in NEPSE are overly attracted to bonus shares distribution, almost as if that is all that matters. As the legendary investor Mark Cuban puts it, a small stake in watermelon is more than 100% of a grape. Companies listed in NEPSE have declared the dividend (both cash and bonus) for the fiscal year 2078/79. Proposed Dividend is the dividends that are distributed among the shareholders of the company during a financial year and will be paid in the Next Year. Hence, the dividends of last FY-77/78 are distributed in this FY-78/79. Investors do not just earn from the rise in the share price of their portfolio stocks. They also earn from the dividend and bonuses announced by the company from time to time. Hence, it becomes important for secondary market enthusiasts to know the names of stocks that are going to pay dividends in near future. Note for Beginners: You can buy the shares of a company after it has proposed its dividend and still be eligible to get the dividend. In other words, you do not have to invest in the company for one whole fiscal year, which is a misconception among amateur investors. The book closure date is simply the date on which the company closes its books for the dividend. Investors can still buy the shares after that date but they won’t get the dividend. To get the dividend of the company, you must buy the shares before the book closure date and you must not sell those shares till the book closure date. For example, investors can buy the shares of a company on the last day before its book closure date and still be entitled to the dividend. The investor remains eligible even if they sell the shares at the book closure date. Commercial Banks 26 commercial banks have already proposed the dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. Among them, Nabil Bank has proposed the highest dividend, i.e. 38%. Similarly, Nepal SBI bank and Civil Bank have paid the least dividend, i.e. 5.31% and 5.26% respectively. However, the book closure date for dividends of these companies has already elapsed, meaning investors won't be able to claim the dividend of these companies.  Cash and bonus dividends of companies proposed by the companies listed at NEPSE in the Fiscal Year 2077-78 are as given below. Development Banks Similarly, 9 of the total 16 development banks listed in NEPSE have declared the dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. The book closure dates for all of them have already elapsed. As of now, Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank Limited (MLBL) and Kamana Sewa Bikas Bank Limited (KSBBL) has paid the highest dividend viz. 21.0526 and 19.47% respectively. Accordingly, Shangrila Development Bank Limited (SADBL) has paid the least dividend of 10.5263%. Finance Out of the listed finance corporations in Nepal, Manjushree Finance Limited remains at the topmost list by paying a dividend of 46%, which is then followed by Reliance Finance Limited which accumulated 15.79% as proposed dividend in the F.Y-77/78. However, the book closure date of all of the following finance sectors has already elapsed. Micro-Finance 46 microfinance companies listed in NEPSE have declared the dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. Jeevan Bikas Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (JBLB) paid the highest dividend of 73.68% followed by Mahila Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (MLBSL) paying 50% of the dividend (Both bonuses as well as cash). However, 2 out of the 46 microfinance companies are yet to declare their book closure; KLBSL and WNLB. Hydropower Out of the 40 listed hydropower companies till FY 77/78, 14 hydropower companies have declared the dividend. As of now, Ngadi Group Power Limited has paid the highest, i.e. 21.05%. The book closure date of all 14 hydropower companies has elapsed. Mutual Funds 21 mutual funds have also unveiled the dividend. Global IME Samunnat Scheme 1 (GIMES1) proposed the highest (100% cash dividend) for the fiscal year. However, the book closure date of all of these funds has elapsed. Investments Meanwhile, out of 5 listed only 3 investment companies have declared their dividend of FY-77/78.  Merchant Bank 18 merchant banks have declared their dividends comprising of both cash as well as bonus dividends. Global IME capital remains at the top position while distributing its dividends. Whereas, Century capital market limited declared the least dividend of 10% only.  Non-Life Insurance Out of the 20 non-life insurance in Nepal, 18 insurance companies are listed in NEPSE. Sagarmatha Insurance Company Limited has the highest dividend payout scale of 21.05%, whereas the lowest remains for Everest Insurance company. Both of these sectors have recently announced the date as their book closure date. Meanwhile, 2 out of the listed insurance company are yet to disclose their book closure date. Others In the same way, NTC (Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited) also unveiled their dividend. As shown, NTC declared a dividend. However, the book closure dates for the said dividend have already elapsed. Trading Salt trading corporation of trading sector distributed dividend of 10.5%, consisting of both bonus as well as cash dividend for the FY 77/78. Manufacturing and products Out of the four companies in manufacturing & products sector, Unilever Nepal Limited declared a highest dividend of 650%, which is wholly cash based. Also, HDL and NLO are yet to declare their bonus listing dates. Note: For the year 2077/78, none of the companies from two sectors viz Hotel and Tourism, and Life insurance sectors have declare their proposed dividends. Disclaimer: This article is intended to keep investors updated about the dividends declared by companies till now. It can be used to compare the trend of dividend proposals among companies and sectors. However, it should be noted that the dividend amount isn't the only valuation metric, and depending on it solely may result in speculation errors. Hence, higher dividend-paying stocks may already have a higher market price (hence reducing the profitability of buying). Additionally, it is not owning more of something that has little value. Investors in NEPSE are overly attracted to bonus shares distribution, almost as if that is all that matters. As the legendary investor Mark Cuban puts it, a small stake in watermelon is more than 100% of a grape. "
2022-04-28,Nabil Bank inaugurates 14 new branches on the same day,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inaugurates-14-new-branches-on-the-same-day-2022-04-28,"Nabil Bank Limited has inaugurated 14 new branches at Dhumbarahi Maligaun Kathmandu, Jeetpur Bara, Duwakot Bhaktapur, Gusingal Lalitpur, Imadol Lalitpur, Thali Dancchi Kathmandu, Chisapani Makwanpur, Puspalal Chowk Morang, Murgiya Rupandehi, Khaireni Rupandehi, Jhumka Sunsari, Mahendranagar Dhanusha, Dhalkebar Dhanusha and Dahachowk Kathmandu on the same day.  Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Chairman and Mr. Ramesh Dangol, Ward Chairperson of Kathmandu - 5 jointly inaugurated Dhumbarahi Maligaun Branch. Similarly, Ms. Asha Rana Adhikary, Nabil Bank’s Director and Mr. Ganesh Aryal, Chief Admistrative Officer of Lalitpur Metropolitan City Office jointly inaugurated Gusingal Branch. Mr. Uday Krishna Upadhyay, Nabil Bank’s Director and Mr. Bhoj Raj Ghimire, Chief Administrative Officer of Kageswori Manohara Municipality jointly inaugurated Thali Dancchi Branch. Mr. Ananta Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Director and Mr. Rameshwar Shrestha, Mayor of Mahalaxmi Municipality, Lalitpur jointly inaugurated Imadol Branch. Lastly, Mr. Pravin Tibrewal, Nabil Bank’s Director and Mr. Hari Prasad Chapagain, Chief Administrative Officer of Changunarayan Municipality jointly inaugurated Duwakot Branch. Similarly, Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Nabil Bank’s Deputy CEO and Mr. Niraj Paudel, Chief Administrative Officer of Chandragiri Municipality jointly inaugurated Dahachowk Branch. Mr. Binaya Kumar Regmi, Nabil Bank’s Deputy CEO and Mrs. Ranjana Poudel Pandit, Director of Nepal Rastra Bank, Siddharthanagar Office jointly inaugurated Murgiya and Khaireni Branches. Mr. Manoj Kumar Gyawali, Nabil Bank’s Chief Financial Officer and Mr. Puran Badhaur Joshi, Principal of Hetauda School of Management jointly inaugurated Chisapani Branch. Mr. Adarsha Bazgain, Nabil Bank’s International Business and Strategic Expansion Head and Mr. Kamal Bahadur Thapa, Chief Administrative Officer of Ramdhuni Municipality jointly inaugurated Jhumka Branch. Mr. Ganesh Prasad Awasthi, Nabil Bank’s Chief Operating Officer and Mr. Rajan Dev Bhatarai, Director of Nepal Rastra Bank, Birgunj Office jointly inaugurated Jeetpur Branch. Mr. Gyanendra Pratap Shah, Nabil Bank’s Chief Business Officer and Ms. Neera Talchabhadel, Director of Nepal Rastra Bank, Janakpur Branch jointly inaugurated Mahendranagar and Dhalkebar. Lastly, Mr. Subodh Lohani, Nabil Bank’s Province Head of Province no. 1 and Mrs. Meena Pandey, Director of Nepal Rastra Bank, Biratnagar Office jointly inaugurated Puspalal chowk Branch. The fourteen new branches were simultaneously inaugurated by the bank’s board members and the guests of the program in the presence of the bank’s senior officials and local residents. The inaugurated branches are as under:   The new branches will be providing full-fledged banking services to the customers. Being one of the leading banks of the nation, Nabil Bank, in its continuous effort to cater banking needs of large and wide spread sections of the society, has been expanding its network in various regions of the country. With the formal inauguration of 14 new branches and soft opening of few other branches, Nabil bank is providing the services through wide domestic network of 148 branches, ATM network of 188 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe and has assured to be the “1st Choice provider of complete financial solutions”. Nabil Bank Limited has inaugurated 14 new branches at Dhumbarahi Maligaun Kathmandu, Jeetpur Bara, Duwakot Bhaktapur, Gusingal Lalitpur, Imadol Lalitpur, Thali Dancchi Kathmandu, Chisapani Makwanpur, Puspalal Chowk Morang, Murgiya Rupandehi, Khaireni Rupandehi, Jhumka Sunsari, Mahendranagar Dhanusha, Dhalkebar Dhanusha and Dahachowk Kathmandu on the same day.  Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Chairman and Mr. Ramesh Dangol, Ward Chairperson of Kathmandu - 5 jointly inaugurated Dhumbarahi Maligaun Branch. Similarly, Ms. Asha Rana Adhikary, Nabil Bank’s Director and Mr. Ganesh Aryal, Chief Admistrative Officer of Lalitpur Metropolitan City Office jointly inaugurated Gusingal Branch. Mr. Uday Krishna Upadhyay, Nabil Bank’s Director and Mr. Bhoj Raj Ghimire, Chief Administrative Officer of Kageswori Manohara Municipality jointly inaugurated Thali Dancchi Branch. Mr. Ananta Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Director and Mr. Rameshwar Shrestha, Mayor of Mahalaxmi Municipality, Lalitpur jointly inaugurated Imadol Branch. Lastly, Mr. Pravin Tibrewal, Nabil Bank’s Director and Mr. Hari Prasad Chapagain, Chief Administrative Officer of Changunarayan Municipality jointly inaugurated Duwakot Branch. Similarly, Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Nabil Bank’s Deputy CEO and Mr. Niraj Paudel, Chief Administrative Officer of Chandragiri Municipality jointly inaugurated Dahachowk Branch. Mr. Binaya Kumar Regmi, Nabil Bank’s Deputy CEO and Mrs. Ranjana Poudel Pandit, Director of Nepal Rastra Bank, Siddharthanagar Office jointly inaugurated Murgiya and Khaireni Branches. Mr. Manoj Kumar Gyawali, Nabil Bank’s Chief Financial Officer and Mr. Puran Badhaur Joshi, Principal of Hetauda School of Management jointly inaugurated Chisapani Branch. Mr. Adarsha Bazgain, Nabil Bank’s International Business and Strategic Expansion Head and Mr. Kamal Bahadur Thapa, Chief Administrative Officer of Ramdhuni Municipality jointly inaugurated Jhumka Branch. Mr. Ganesh Prasad Awasthi, Nabil Bank’s Chief Operating Officer and Mr. Rajan Dev Bhatarai, Director of Nepal Rastra Bank, Birgunj Office jointly inaugurated Jeetpur Branch. Mr. Gyanendra Pratap Shah, Nabil Bank’s Chief Business Officer and Ms. Neera Talchabhadel, Director of Nepal Rastra Bank, Janakpur Branch jointly inaugurated Mahendranagar and Dhalkebar. Lastly, Mr. Subodh Lohani, Nabil Bank’s Province Head of Province no. 1 and Mrs. Meena Pandey, Director of Nepal Rastra Bank, Biratnagar Office jointly inaugurated Puspalal chowk Branch. The fourteen new branches were simultaneously inaugurated by the bank’s board members and the guests of the program in the presence of the bank’s senior officials and local residents. The inaugurated branches are as under:   The new branches will be providing full-fledged banking services to the customers. Being one of the leading banks of the nation, Nabil Bank, in its continuous effort to cater banking needs of large and wide spread sections of the society, has been expanding its network in various regions of the country. With the formal inauguration of 14 new branches and soft opening of few other branches, Nabil bank is providing the services through wide domestic network of 148 branches, ATM network of 188 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe and has assured to be the “1st Choice provider of complete financial solutions”. Nabil Bank Limited has inaugurated 14 new branches at Dhumbarahi Maligaun Kathmandu, Jeetpur Bara, Duwakot Bhaktapur, Gusingal Lalitpur, Imadol Lalitpur, Thali Dancchi Kathmandu, Chisapani Makwanpur, Puspalal Chowk Morang, Murgiya Rupandehi, Khaireni Rupandehi, Jhumka Sunsari, Mahendranagar Dhanusha, Dhalkebar Dhanusha and Dahachowk Kathmandu on the same day.  Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Chairman and Mr. Ramesh Dangol, Ward Chairperson of Kathmandu - 5 jointly inaugurated Dhumbarahi Maligaun Branch. Similarly, Ms. Asha Rana Adhikary, Nabil Bank’s Director and Mr. Ganesh Aryal, Chief Admistrative Officer of Lalitpur Metropolitan City Office jointly inaugurated Gusingal Branch. Mr. Uday Krishna Upadhyay, Nabil Bank’s Director and Mr. Bhoj Raj Ghimire, Chief Administrative Officer of Kageswori Manohara Municipality jointly inaugurated Thali Dancchi Branch. Mr. Ananta Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Director and Mr. Rameshwar Shrestha, Mayor of Mahalaxmi Municipality, Lalitpur jointly inaugurated Imadol Branch. Lastly, Mr. Pravin Tibrewal, Nabil Bank’s Director and Mr. Hari Prasad Chapagain, Chief Administrative Officer of Changunarayan Municipality jointly inaugurated Duwakot Branch. Similarly, Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Nabil Bank’s Deputy CEO and Mr. Niraj Paudel, Chief Administrative Officer of Chandragiri Municipality jointly inaugurated Dahachowk Branch. Mr. Binaya Kumar Regmi, Nabil Bank’s Deputy CEO and Mrs. Ranjana Poudel Pandit, Director of Nepal Rastra Bank, Siddharthanagar Office jointly inaugurated Murgiya and Khaireni Branches. Mr. Manoj Kumar Gyawali, Nabil Bank’s Chief Financial Officer and Mr. Puran Badhaur Joshi, Principal of Hetauda School of Management jointly inaugurated Chisapani Branch. Mr. Adarsha Bazgain, Nabil Bank’s International Business and Strategic Expansion Head and Mr. Kamal Bahadur Thapa, Chief Administrative Officer of Ramdhuni Municipality jointly inaugurated Jhumka Branch. Mr. Ganesh Prasad Awasthi, Nabil Bank’s Chief Operating Officer and Mr. Rajan Dev Bhatarai, Director of Nepal Rastra Bank, Birgunj Office jointly inaugurated Jeetpur Branch. Mr. Gyanendra Pratap Shah, Nabil Bank’s Chief Business Officer and Ms. Neera Talchabhadel, Director of Nepal Rastra Bank, Janakpur Branch jointly inaugurated Mahendranagar and Dhalkebar. Lastly, Mr. Subodh Lohani, Nabil Bank’s Province Head of Province no. 1 and Mrs. Meena Pandey, Director of Nepal Rastra Bank, Biratnagar Office jointly inaugurated Puspalal chowk Branch. The fourteen new branches were simultaneously inaugurated by the bank’s board members and the guests of the program in the presence of the bank’s senior officials and local residents. The inaugurated branches are as under:   The new branches will be providing full-fledged banking services to the customers. Being one of the leading banks of the nation, Nabil Bank, in its continuous effort to cater banking needs of large and wide spread sections of the society, has been expanding its network in various regions of the country. With the formal inauguration of 14 new branches and soft opening of few other branches, Nabil bank is providing the services through wide domestic network of 148 branches, ATM network of 188 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe and has assured to be the “1st Choice provider of complete financial solutions”. "
2022-04-26,Commercial Banks See Decrement in Total Deposit by Rs. 10B and Lending By Rs. 1B in Second Week of Baisakh,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/total-deposit-in-commercial-banks-at-rs-4367b-in-second-week-of-baisakh-lending-at-rs-4194b-2022-04-26,"The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the second week of Baisakh 2079, i.e. till Baisakh 09. The total deposit figure has decreased by Rs. 10 billion in the second week. The total deposit figure is at Rs. 4367 billion. Rs. 4259 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 108 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also decreased by Rs. 1 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4194 billion. Rs. 4153 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 41 billion is in foreign currency. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the second week of Baisakh 2079, i.e. till Baisakh 09. The total deposit figure has decreased by Rs. 10 billion in the second week. The total deposit figure is at Rs. 4367 billion. Rs. 4259 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 108 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also decreased by Rs. 1 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4194 billion. Rs. 4153 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 41 billion is in foreign currency. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the second week of Baisakh 2079, i.e. till Baisakh 09. The total deposit figure has decreased by Rs. 10 billion in the second week. The total deposit figure is at Rs. 4367 billion. Rs. 4259 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 108 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also decreased by Rs. 1 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4194 billion. Rs. 4153 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 41 billion is in foreign currency. "
2022-04-26,Nabil Bank organizes financial literacy event at Baglung Nagarpalika; makes locals aware about different banking practices,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-organizes-financial-literacy-event-at-baglung-nagarpalika-makes-locals-aware-about-different-banking-practices-2022-04-26,"Nabil Bank has organized a financial literacy event at Baglung nagarpalika of Baglung district on Baisakh 11, 2079.  The literacy event was also addressed by director of the bank Ms. Asha Rana Adhikari, coordinator of Nabil Digho Banking Mr. Leela Prasad Ojha, who highlighted the benefits of micro banking and affordable credit facilities available for farmers, small and female entrepreneurs, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has organized a financial literacy event at Baglung nagarpalika of Baglung district on Baisakh 11, 2079.  The literacy event was also addressed by director of the bank Ms. Asha Rana Adhikari, coordinator of Nabil Digho Banking Mr. Leela Prasad Ojha, who highlighted the benefits of micro banking and affordable credit facilities available for farmers, small and female entrepreneurs, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has organized a financial literacy event at Baglung nagarpalika of Baglung district on Baisakh 11, 2079.  The literacy event was also addressed by director of the bank Ms. Asha Rana Adhikari, coordinator of Nabil Digho Banking Mr. Leela Prasad Ojha, who highlighted the benefits of micro banking and affordable credit facilities available for farmers, small and female entrepreneurs, as per the media statement. "
2022-04-25,Nabil Bank inks MoU with Alternative Energy Development Centre; lending institutions to receive 20% of loan amount provided to developers of sustainable energy,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inks-mou-with-alternative-energy-development-centre-lending-institutions-to-receive-20-of-loan-amount-provided-to-developers-of-sustainable-energy-2022-04-25,"Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with the Alternative Energy Development Centre for the development and promotion of alternative and sustainable energy sources.  The MoU was signed between the CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Anil Kesari Shah and ED of the center Mr. Madhusudhan Adhikari amid a program. Following the agreement, the lending agencies that failed to receive loan payback from the developers of renewable energy will receive a 20% or up to Rs 10 crore payback insurance guarantee from Renewable Energy Fund. With the agreement, the bank aims to increase its investment in renewable energy sources in the coming days, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with the Alternative Energy Development Centre for the development and promotion of alternative and sustainable energy sources.  The MoU was signed between the CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Anil Kesari Shah and ED of the center Mr. Madhusudhan Adhikari amid a program. Following the agreement, the lending agencies that failed to receive loan payback from the developers of renewable energy will receive a 20% or up to Rs 10 crore payback insurance guarantee from Renewable Energy Fund. With the agreement, the bank aims to increase its investment in renewable energy sources in the coming days, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with the Alternative Energy Development Centre for the development and promotion of alternative and sustainable energy sources.  The MoU was signed between the CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Anil Kesari Shah and ED of the center Mr. Madhusudhan Adhikari amid a program. Following the agreement, the lending agencies that failed to receive loan payback from the developers of renewable energy will receive a 20% or up to Rs 10 crore payback insurance guarantee from Renewable Energy Fund. With the agreement, the bank aims to increase its investment in renewable energy sources in the coming days, as per the media statement. "
2022-04-24,Thriving During Liquidity Crisis In Nepal; A Quick Look At The Third Quarter Performance Of Commercial Bank's,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-bank-limited-comparative-q3-78-79-2022-04-22,"From the low-interest rate environment affecting the overall banking industry to the liquidity crisis in the economy, we have seen all of the commercial banks go through a lot after the COVID-19. However, the banks have shown optimal efficiency of the available resources to thrive in the market. There has been much more speculation in the market as to how the business volume and profitability will playout for the overall banking industry. Now that the bank has released their third quarterly earnings, we will carry out a detailed comparative analysis in this article. So, let's dive into the numbers. As per the net profit of the unaudited third quarter of FY 2078/79, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 3.73 Arba. Similarly, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 3.60 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a net profit of Rs 3.35 Arba. The bank with the least net profit is Laxmi Bank Limited (LBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 586 crores. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.89 Arba. Out of 27 commercial banks, 12 banks have reported a decline in their Net Profit.  The total net profit for the year is Rs 50.98 Arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 50.73 Arba. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 23.79 Arba capital and Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) with Rs 18.65 Arba paid-up capital.   With an industry average of Rs 8.61 Arba, 9 banks stand above the average benchmark in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.32 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 20.25 Arba. Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 17.93 Arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 16.70 Arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.60 kharba as a deposit. In total 13 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the third quarter of FY 2078/79, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.96 kharba, Global IME Bank (GBIME) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.69 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBB) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.45 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 82 Arba.  The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.60 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.57 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 2.21 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 76 Arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.48 Kharba. 12 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.48 Kharba. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 8.26 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 7.44 Arba and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  with an income of Rs 6.59 Arba. The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 4.08 Arba. 11 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income.  *Distributable Profit includes last year's retained earnings. Major indicators: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 41.56 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 25.03 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 24.16 per share. Laxmi Bank Limited (LBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 9.91 per share.  The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 18.78. 11 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 240.6 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) is in the second position with Rs 228.62. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q3 of FY 2078/79 i.e. Rs 225.32. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 124.16 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 165.34 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. Nepal Credit & Commerce Bank Limited (NCCB) has the least PE ratio of 12.86 times. It is followed by Machhapuchhre Bank Limited (MBL) with a PE ratio of 13.44 times. 20 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 19.91 times.  (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios, rather the ratios for the quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio) In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) reported the lowest NPL of 0.14% in terms of asset quality. SBI is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.26%.  Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has reported the highest NPL of 3.07%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have the highest NPL of 2.32%.  In terms of the Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 15.90%. This is followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with a CAR of 15.85%.  Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the third quarter of FY 2078/79:  From the low-interest rate environment affecting the overall banking industry to the liquidity crisis in the economy, we have seen all of the commercial banks go through a lot after the COVID-19. However, the banks have shown optimal efficiency of the available resources to thrive in the market. There has been much more speculation in the market as to how the business volume and profitability will playout for the overall banking industry. Now that the bank has released their third quarterly earnings, we will carry out a detailed comparative analysis in this article. So, let's dive into the numbers. As per the net profit of the unaudited third quarter of FY 2078/79, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 3.73 Arba. Similarly, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 3.60 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a net profit of Rs 3.35 Arba. The bank with the least net profit is Laxmi Bank Limited (LBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 586 crores. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.89 Arba. Out of 27 commercial banks, 12 banks have reported a decline in their Net Profit.  The total net profit for the year is Rs 50.98 Arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 50.73 Arba. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 23.79 Arba capital and Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) with Rs 18.65 Arba paid-up capital.   With an industry average of Rs 8.61 Arba, 9 banks stand above the average benchmark in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.32 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 20.25 Arba. Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 17.93 Arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 16.70 Arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.60 kharba as a deposit. In total 13 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the third quarter of FY 2078/79, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.96 kharba, Global IME Bank (GBIME) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.69 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBB) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.45 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 82 Arba.  The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.60 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.57 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 2.21 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 76 Arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.48 Kharba. 12 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.48 Kharba. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 8.26 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 7.44 Arba and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  with an income of Rs 6.59 Arba. The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 4.08 Arba. 11 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income.  *Distributable Profit includes last year's retained earnings. Major indicators: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 41.56 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 25.03 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 24.16 per share. Laxmi Bank Limited (LBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 9.91 per share.  The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 18.78. 11 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 240.6 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) is in the second position with Rs 228.62. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q3 of FY 2078/79 i.e. Rs 225.32. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 124.16 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 165.34 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. Nepal Credit & Commerce Bank Limited (NCCB) has the least PE ratio of 12.86 times. It is followed by Machhapuchhre Bank Limited (MBL) with a PE ratio of 13.44 times. 20 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 19.91 times.  (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios, rather the ratios for the quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio) In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) reported the lowest NPL of 0.14% in terms of asset quality. SBI is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.26%.  Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has reported the highest NPL of 3.07%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have the highest NPL of 2.32%.  In terms of the Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 15.90%. This is followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with a CAR of 15.85%.  Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the third quarter of FY 2078/79:  From the low-interest rate environment affecting the overall banking industry to the liquidity crisis in the economy, we have seen all of the commercial banks go through a lot after the COVID-19. However, the banks have shown optimal efficiency of the available resources to thrive in the market. There has been much more speculation in the market as to how the business volume and profitability will playout for the overall banking industry. Now that the bank has released their third quarterly earnings, we will carry out a detailed comparative analysis in this article. So, let's dive into the numbers. As per the net profit of the unaudited third quarter of FY 2078/79, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 3.73 Arba. Similarly, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 3.60 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a net profit of Rs 3.35 Arba. The bank with the least net profit is Laxmi Bank Limited (LBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 586 crores. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.89 Arba. Out of 27 commercial banks, 12 banks have reported a decline in their Net Profit.  The total net profit for the year is Rs 50.98 Arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 50.73 Arba. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 23.79 Arba capital and Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) with Rs 18.65 Arba paid-up capital.   With an industry average of Rs 8.61 Arba, 9 banks stand above the average benchmark in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.32 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 20.25 Arba. Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 17.93 Arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 16.70 Arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.60 kharba as a deposit. In total 13 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the third quarter of FY 2078/79, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.96 kharba, Global IME Bank (GBIME) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.69 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBB) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.45 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 82 Arba.  The top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.60 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.57 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 2.21 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 76 Arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.48 Kharba. 12 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.48 Kharba. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 8.26 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 7.44 Arba and Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  with an income of Rs 6.59 Arba. The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 4.08 Arba. 11 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income.  *Distributable Profit includes last year's retained earnings. Major indicators: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 41.56 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 25.03 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 24.16 per share. Laxmi Bank Limited (LBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 9.91 per share.  The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 18.78. 11 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 240.6 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) is in the second position with Rs 228.62. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q3 of FY 2078/79 i.e. Rs 225.32. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 124.16 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 165.34 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. Nepal Credit & Commerce Bank Limited (NCCB) has the least PE ratio of 12.86 times. It is followed by Machhapuchhre Bank Limited (MBL) with a PE ratio of 13.44 times. 20 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 19.91 times.  (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios, rather the ratios for the quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio) In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) reported the lowest NPL of 0.14% in terms of asset quality. SBI is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.26%.  Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has reported the highest NPL of 3.07%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have the highest NPL of 2.32%.  In terms of the Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 15.90%. This is followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with a CAR of 15.85%.  Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the third quarter of FY 2078/79:  "
2022-04-22,Nabil Bank Deposits Semi-Annual Interest of Its Debentures,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-deposits-semi-annual-interest-of-its-debentures-2022-04-22,"Nabil Bank Limited has deposited semi-annual interest of ""8% Nabil Debenture 2085"" and ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" directly to the bank accounts of the debenture holders. Unitholders who haven't yet received their interest should authenticate their bank accounts on their respective Demat accounts. Unitholders who have taken margin loans against the units of the debentures should present an approval letter from the lending institution. Notice Nabil Bank Limited has deposited semi-annual interest of ""8% Nabil Debenture 2085"" and ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" directly to the bank accounts of the debenture holders. Unitholders who haven't yet received their interest should authenticate their bank accounts on their respective Demat accounts. Unitholders who have taken margin loans against the units of the debentures should present an approval letter from the lending institution. Notice Nabil Bank Limited has deposited semi-annual interest of ""8% Nabil Debenture 2085"" and ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" directly to the bank accounts of the debenture holders. Unitholders who haven't yet received their interest should authenticate their bank accounts on their respective Demat accounts. Unitholders who have taken margin loans against the units of the debentures should present an approval letter from the lending institution. Notice "
2022-04-21,"Total Deposit in Commercial Banks at Rs. 4377B in First Week of Baisakh, Lending at Rs. 4195B",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/total-deposit-in-commercial-banks-at-rs-4377b-in-first-week-of-baisakh-lending-at-rs-4195b-2022-04-21,"The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the first week of Baisakh, 2079, i.e. till Baisakh 02. The average CD ratio of the industry was 90.77%. The total deposit figure has fallen by Rs. 12 billion in the first week. The total deposit figure is Rs. 4377 billion. Rs. 4265 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 112 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone down by Rs. 2 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4195 billion. Rs. 4153 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 42 billion is in foreign currency. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the first week of Baisakh, 2079, i.e. till Baisakh 02. The average CD ratio of the industry was 90.77%. The total deposit figure has fallen by Rs. 12 billion in the first week. The total deposit figure is Rs. 4377 billion. Rs. 4265 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 112 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone down by Rs. 2 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4195 billion. Rs. 4153 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 42 billion is in foreign currency. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the first week of Baisakh, 2079, i.e. till Baisakh 02. The average CD ratio of the industry was 90.77%. The total deposit figure has fallen by Rs. 12 billion in the first week. The total deposit figure is Rs. 4377 billion. Rs. 4265 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 112 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone down by Rs. 2 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4195 billion. Rs. 4153 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 42 billion is in foreign currency. "
2022-04-21,"What is the latest base rate, Credit-Deposit Ratio and, Credit Adequacy Ratio of commercial banks? How Will It Impact The Market?",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/what-is-the-latest-base-rate-credit-deposit-ratio-and-credit-adequacy-ratio-of-commercial-banks-how-will-it-impact-the-market-2022-04-21,"The base rate published by the commercial banks refers to the minimum rate below which they are not allowed to lend to the borrowers. The BFIs usually add a premium to the base rate in order to determine the base rate. The base rate includes: The industry average spread rate stands at 3.64% and the industry average base rate stands at 9.18% by the end of the third quarter of FY 78/79, whereas the same for FY 77/78 was 3.75% and 6.96% respectively. Compared to the average base rate of the previous quarter, the average base rate has considerably increased. The premium on base rate for margin lending could vary between 0% and 5% depending on the bank and the customer. Out of 27 commercial banks, 15 Banks have base rates that are greater/equal to the average base rate. Sunrise Bank Leads the position by having the highest base rate of 10.11 followed by Mega Bank and Civil Bank. Whereas, Ratriya Banijya Bank and Standard Chartered Bank have the lowest base rate notwithstanding the fact that it is still high as compared to the Q3 of last year. The percentage of increase in base rates of the said bank is 24.76% and 29.40% respectively.  The list of the latest base rate for each commercial bank is as follows:  Similarly, Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR), also known as the Capital to Risk (Weighted) Assets Ratio (CAR), is the ratio of a bank’s capital to its risk.  In terms of CAR, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 15.9%. This is followed by Agriculture Development Bank Ltd (ADBL) with a CAR of 15.85%.  Likewise, Credit-Deposit Ratio (CD-Ratio) is the financial indicator that indicates how much a bank lends out of the deposits it has mobilized. Also, a very low CD Ratio indicates that banks are not making full use of their resources. Commercial banks have to maintain a CD ratio of a Maximum of 90 or below 90. However, most of the bank’s CD ratio is above 90. NRB has instructed commercial banks to bring down CD ratio below 90 from coming Ashad, 2079.  As of the third quarter of FY 2078/79, Prime Commercial Bank stands on top with a 99.62 CD Ratio, which is an increment of 17.38% since the last FY’s Q3. The base rate published by the commercial banks refers to the minimum rate below which they are not allowed to lend to the borrowers. The BFIs usually add a premium to the base rate in order to determine the base rate. The base rate includes: The industry average spread rate stands at 3.64% and the industry average base rate stands at 9.18% by the end of the third quarter of FY 78/79, whereas the same for FY 77/78 was 3.75% and 6.96% respectively. Compared to the average base rate of the previous quarter, the average base rate has considerably increased. The premium on base rate for margin lending could vary between 0% and 5% depending on the bank and the customer. Out of 27 commercial banks, 15 Banks have base rates that are greater/equal to the average base rate. Sunrise Bank Leads the position by having the highest base rate of 10.11 followed by Mega Bank and Civil Bank. Whereas, Ratriya Banijya Bank and Standard Chartered Bank have the lowest base rate notwithstanding the fact that it is still high as compared to the Q3 of last year. The percentage of increase in base rates of the said bank is 24.76% and 29.40% respectively.  The list of the latest base rate for each commercial bank is as follows:  Similarly, Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR), also known as the Capital to Risk (Weighted) Assets Ratio (CAR), is the ratio of a bank’s capital to its risk.  In terms of CAR, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 15.9%. This is followed by Agriculture Development Bank Ltd (ADBL) with a CAR of 15.85%.  Likewise, Credit-Deposit Ratio (CD-Ratio) is the financial indicator that indicates how much a bank lends out of the deposits it has mobilized. Also, a very low CD Ratio indicates that banks are not making full use of their resources. Commercial banks have to maintain a CD ratio of a Maximum of 90 or below 90. However, most of the bank’s CD ratio is above 90. NRB has instructed commercial banks to bring down CD ratio below 90 from coming Ashad, 2079.  As of the third quarter of FY 2078/79, Prime Commercial Bank stands on top with a 99.62 CD Ratio, which is an increment of 17.38% since the last FY’s Q3. The base rate published by the commercial banks refers to the minimum rate below which they are not allowed to lend to the borrowers. The BFIs usually add a premium to the base rate in order to determine the base rate. The base rate includes: The industry average spread rate stands at 3.64% and the industry average base rate stands at 9.18% by the end of the third quarter of FY 78/79, whereas the same for FY 77/78 was 3.75% and 6.96% respectively. Compared to the average base rate of the previous quarter, the average base rate has considerably increased. The premium on base rate for margin lending could vary between 0% and 5% depending on the bank and the customer. Out of 27 commercial banks, 15 Banks have base rates that are greater/equal to the average base rate. Sunrise Bank Leads the position by having the highest base rate of 10.11 followed by Mega Bank and Civil Bank. Whereas, Ratriya Banijya Bank and Standard Chartered Bank have the lowest base rate notwithstanding the fact that it is still high as compared to the Q3 of last year. The percentage of increase in base rates of the said bank is 24.76% and 29.40% respectively.  The list of the latest base rate for each commercial bank is as follows:  Similarly, Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR), also known as the Capital to Risk (Weighted) Assets Ratio (CAR), is the ratio of a bank’s capital to its risk.  In terms of CAR, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 15.9%. This is followed by Agriculture Development Bank Ltd (ADBL) with a CAR of 15.85%.  Likewise, Credit-Deposit Ratio (CD-Ratio) is the financial indicator that indicates how much a bank lends out of the deposits it has mobilized. Also, a very low CD Ratio indicates that banks are not making full use of their resources. Commercial banks have to maintain a CD ratio of a Maximum of 90 or below 90. However, most of the bank’s CD ratio is above 90. NRB has instructed commercial banks to bring down CD ratio below 90 from coming Ashad, 2079.  As of the third quarter of FY 2078/79, Prime Commercial Bank stands on top with a 99.62 CD Ratio, which is an increment of 17.38% since the last FY’s Q3. "
2022-04-19,Nabil Bank support 2-day workshop on youth entrepreneurship development for SDGs as title sponsor; also to provide funding for the selected projects,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-support-2-day-workshop-on-youth-entrepreneurship-development-for-sdgs-as-title-sponsor-also-to-provide-funding-for-the-selected-projects-2022-04-19,"Nabil Bank has stepped in as the title sponsor in the two-day workshop on youth entrepreneurship for sustainable development held on Chaitra 25 and 26, 2078.  The MoU was signed between Deputy MD of the bank Mr. Aadarsha Bajgain and ED of PISC Nepal Mr. Prabin Khanal following which the bank will provide needed banking facilities to the selected entrepreneurial projects that showed up during the event, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has stepped in as the title sponsor in the two-day workshop on youth entrepreneurship for sustainable development held on Chaitra 25 and 26, 2078.  The MoU was signed between Deputy MD of the bank Mr. Aadarsha Bajgain and ED of PISC Nepal Mr. Prabin Khanal following which the bank will provide needed banking facilities to the selected entrepreneurial projects that showed up during the event, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has stepped in as the title sponsor in the two-day workshop on youth entrepreneurship for sustainable development held on Chaitra 25 and 26, 2078.  The MoU was signed between Deputy MD of the bank Mr. Aadarsha Bajgain and ED of PISC Nepal Mr. Prabin Khanal following which the bank will provide needed banking facilities to the selected entrepreneurial projects that showed up during the event, as per the media statement. "
2022-04-19,"In 8-months of FY, Highest Credit From Commercial Banks Went to Wholesale and Retail",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/in-8-months-of-fy-highest-credit-from-commercial-banks-went-to-wholesale-and-retail-2022-04-19,"For any economy to be vibrant and prosperous, Banks and Financial Institutions (BFIs) play a crucial role. The primary objective of such institutions is to bridge the suppliers of capital to those who can utilize it productively. With this objective in mind, banks collect deposits from consumers who have excess funds and disburse collected funds as loans to consumers who are seeking capital. Even during this operation, BFIs are obliged to stick with credit guidelines set by Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). NRB, being the central, regulating bank in the country formulates guidelines to reduce regional economic imbalance and ensure overall economic growth. According to the latest information provided by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB), the following is the sector-wise breakdown of the amount of loan forwarded by each commercial bank in different sectors. This is the data reported till the first eight months of the current fiscal year 2078/79.    Commercial Banks have deployed Rs.47.01 Kharba on different sectors till Falgun end FY 78/79. They have extended maximum loans under the wholesaler and Retailers sector i.e. Rs. 9.59 Kharba by the end of Falgun. The maximum concentration of credit is under Wholesaler and Retailers, Consumption Loans, and Agriculture, Forestry & Beverage related Production sectors i.e. 20.41%, 17.67%, and 15.83 % respectively. For any economy to be vibrant and prosperous, Banks and Financial Institutions (BFIs) play a crucial role. The primary objective of such institutions is to bridge the suppliers of capital to those who can utilize it productively. With this objective in mind, banks collect deposits from consumers who have excess funds and disburse collected funds as loans to consumers who are seeking capital. Even during this operation, BFIs are obliged to stick with credit guidelines set by Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). NRB, being the central, regulating bank in the country formulates guidelines to reduce regional economic imbalance and ensure overall economic growth. According to the latest information provided by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB), the following is the sector-wise breakdown of the amount of loan forwarded by each commercial bank in different sectors. This is the data reported till the first eight months of the current fiscal year 2078/79.    Commercial Banks have deployed Rs.47.01 Kharba on different sectors till Falgun end FY 78/79. They have extended maximum loans under the wholesaler and Retailers sector i.e. Rs. 9.59 Kharba by the end of Falgun. The maximum concentration of credit is under Wholesaler and Retailers, Consumption Loans, and Agriculture, Forestry & Beverage related Production sectors i.e. 20.41%, 17.67%, and 15.83 % respectively. For any economy to be vibrant and prosperous, Banks and Financial Institutions (BFIs) play a crucial role. The primary objective of such institutions is to bridge the suppliers of capital to those who can utilize it productively. With this objective in mind, banks collect deposits from consumers who have excess funds and disburse collected funds as loans to consumers who are seeking capital. Even during this operation, BFIs are obliged to stick with credit guidelines set by Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). NRB, being the central, regulating bank in the country formulates guidelines to reduce regional economic imbalance and ensure overall economic growth. According to the latest information provided by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB), the following is the sector-wise breakdown of the amount of loan forwarded by each commercial bank in different sectors. This is the data reported till the first eight months of the current fiscal year 2078/79.    Commercial Banks have deployed Rs.47.01 Kharba on different sectors till Falgun end FY 78/79. They have extended maximum loans under the wholesaler and Retailers sector i.e. Rs. 9.59 Kharba by the end of Falgun. The maximum concentration of credit is under Wholesaler and Retailers, Consumption Loans, and Agriculture, Forestry & Beverage related Production sectors i.e. 20.41%, 17.67%, and 15.83 % respectively. "
2022-04-19,Ballooning Provisions Lead to Decline In Net Profit Of Nabil Bank Limited In Q3,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/balooning-provisions-lead-to-decline-in-net-profit-of-nabil-bank-limited-in-q3-2022-04-19,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its third-quarter report for the FY 2078/2079 with a decline in Net Profit by 8.91%. The bank's net profit has decreased from Rs. 3.67 Arba in the third quarter of FY 2077/2078 to Rs. 3.35 Arba in the third quarter of FY 2078/2079. The decline in Net profit is due to the higher provisions in this quarter. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 2.16 Arba as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments. The bank’s deposits from customers increased by 4.81% to Rs. 2.34 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 12.10% to Rs. 2.21 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the third quarter. The bank's Net Interest Income (core business income) has increased by 29.30% to Rs. 6.59 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 18.49 Arba with Rs. 16.69 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 1.14%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 24.16 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 190.29. The company traded at a P/E multiple of 40.18 times. The company is set to acquire Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB). Major Highlights: Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its third-quarter report for the FY 2078/2079 with a decline in Net Profit by 8.91%. The bank's net profit has decreased from Rs. 3.67 Arba in the third quarter of FY 2077/2078 to Rs. 3.35 Arba in the third quarter of FY 2078/2079. The decline in Net profit is due to the higher provisions in this quarter. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 2.16 Arba as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments. The bank’s deposits from customers increased by 4.81% to Rs. 2.34 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 12.10% to Rs. 2.21 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the third quarter. The bank's Net Interest Income (core business income) has increased by 29.30% to Rs. 6.59 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 18.49 Arba with Rs. 16.69 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 1.14%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 24.16 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 190.29. The company traded at a P/E multiple of 40.18 times. The company is set to acquire Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB). Major Highlights: Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its third-quarter report for the FY 2078/2079 with a decline in Net Profit by 8.91%. The bank's net profit has decreased from Rs. 3.67 Arba in the third quarter of FY 2077/2078 to Rs. 3.35 Arba in the third quarter of FY 2078/2079. The decline in Net profit is due to the higher provisions in this quarter. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 2.16 Arba as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments. The bank’s deposits from customers increased by 4.81% to Rs. 2.34 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 12.10% to Rs. 2.21 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the third quarter. The bank's Net Interest Income (core business income) has increased by 29.30% to Rs. 6.59 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 18.49 Arba with Rs. 16.69 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 1.14%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 24.16 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 190.29. The company traded at a P/E multiple of 40.18 times. The company is set to acquire Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB). Major Highlights: "
2022-04-18,Nabil Bank Conducts Workshop on Ways of Protecting Health of Migrant Workers in Climate Change Perspective,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-conducts-workshop-on-ways-of-protecting-health-of-migrant-workers-in-climate-change-perspective-2022-04-18,"Nabil Bank has successfully conducted a workshop on “Ways of Protecting Health of Migrant Workers in Climate Change Perspective” where Mr. Jason Glaser, CEO of La Isla Network, USA was the key presenter. La Isla Network is a research and consulting group dedicated to eliminating heat-related ailments, such as chronic kidney disease from non-traditional causes (CKDnT) among workers and their communities around the world. In the changing climate, the organization is developing, supporting, and implementing evidence-based solutions to address workers’ health. As Nabil Bank has always been promoting various Sustainable Banking initiatives for effective contribution to the society, this first of its kind workshop has been conducted as a noble initiative to start a dialogue on the crucial component of the Nepalese economy i.e. migrant workers. The program was also supported by Nepal Remitters Association. The workshop which was held at Vivanta Hotel, Lalitpur on 15th April 2022 was attended by the higher level of authorities of the Bank along with officials from Ministry of Labor, Employment & Social Security, Ministry of Federal Affairs & General Administration, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Employment Board, ILO, Diplomatic Missions, various stakeholders from Nepal Remitters Association, Manpower Companies, Pravasi Nepali Coordination Committee, etc.  Speaking about the workshop, Mr. Upendra Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Chairman said that the works and researches conducted by Jason Glaser are very useful to our Nepali Migrant Workers before it is too late as it has been an eye opening session on the health issues caused by Climate Change. During the workshop, Mr. Glaser focused on the impact of climate change on the health of migrant workers. Furthermore, he mentioned that several chronic diseases are increasing in rural hot communities as temperature progressively rises worldwide amidst any correlation with traditional risk factors. Hence, it is imperative to raise a voice to improve worksite conditions and ensure adequate hydration of the migrant workers to combat the new type of kidney disease which is linked with temperature and climate and may be one of the first epidemics caused due to global warming. Similarly, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Nabil Bank’s CEO mentioned that the impact of the climate change on living organisms is high but small attentive measures can help everyone including the workers to mitigate the risk factors to some extent. For that, awareness amongst the migrant workers is quite crucial and for that Nabil Bank is always ready to assist in every way possible. The program was actively participated by all the participants who shared their views and experiences, including Mr. Prabin Adhikari, Executive Member of Nepal Remitters Association and Ms. Subarna Shrestha from Manpower Agency. As a closing remarks, Dr, Thaneswor Bhusal, Under Secretary of Ministry of Labor Employment and Social Security also shared some of his experiences and learnings about the effect of climate change on workers and also assured that anyone willing to work on such researches will be provided assistance with resources from their end. Mr. Bhusal expressed his gratitude towards Nabil Bank for acting as the bridge amongst all the stakeholders and bringing everyone in one single forum to discuss on the serious issues related to migrant workers. Nabil Bank has successfully conducted a workshop on “Ways of Protecting Health of Migrant Workers in Climate Change Perspective” where Mr. Jason Glaser, CEO of La Isla Network, USA was the key presenter. La Isla Network is a research and consulting group dedicated to eliminating heat-related ailments, such as chronic kidney disease from non-traditional causes (CKDnT) among workers and their communities around the world. In the changing climate, the organization is developing, supporting, and implementing evidence-based solutions to address workers’ health. As Nabil Bank has always been promoting various Sustainable Banking initiatives for effective contribution to the society, this first of its kind workshop has been conducted as a noble initiative to start a dialogue on the crucial component of the Nepalese economy i.e. migrant workers. The program was also supported by Nepal Remitters Association. The workshop which was held at Vivanta Hotel, Lalitpur on 15th April 2022 was attended by the higher level of authorities of the Bank along with officials from Ministry of Labor, Employment & Social Security, Ministry of Federal Affairs & General Administration, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Employment Board, ILO, Diplomatic Missions, various stakeholders from Nepal Remitters Association, Manpower Companies, Pravasi Nepali Coordination Committee, etc.  Speaking about the workshop, Mr. Upendra Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Chairman said that the works and researches conducted by Jason Glaser are very useful to our Nepali Migrant Workers before it is too late as it has been an eye opening session on the health issues caused by Climate Change. During the workshop, Mr. Glaser focused on the impact of climate change on the health of migrant workers. Furthermore, he mentioned that several chronic diseases are increasing in rural hot communities as temperature progressively rises worldwide amidst any correlation with traditional risk factors. Hence, it is imperative to raise a voice to improve worksite conditions and ensure adequate hydration of the migrant workers to combat the new type of kidney disease which is linked with temperature and climate and may be one of the first epidemics caused due to global warming. Similarly, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Nabil Bank’s CEO mentioned that the impact of the climate change on living organisms is high but small attentive measures can help everyone including the workers to mitigate the risk factors to some extent. For that, awareness amongst the migrant workers is quite crucial and for that Nabil Bank is always ready to assist in every way possible. The program was actively participated by all the participants who shared their views and experiences, including Mr. Prabin Adhikari, Executive Member of Nepal Remitters Association and Ms. Subarna Shrestha from Manpower Agency. As a closing remarks, Dr, Thaneswor Bhusal, Under Secretary of Ministry of Labor Employment and Social Security also shared some of his experiences and learnings about the effect of climate change on workers and also assured that anyone willing to work on such researches will be provided assistance with resources from their end. Mr. Bhusal expressed his gratitude towards Nabil Bank for acting as the bridge amongst all the stakeholders and bringing everyone in one single forum to discuss on the serious issues related to migrant workers. Nabil Bank has successfully conducted a workshop on “Ways of Protecting Health of Migrant Workers in Climate Change Perspective” where Mr. Jason Glaser, CEO of La Isla Network, USA was the key presenter. La Isla Network is a research and consulting group dedicated to eliminating heat-related ailments, such as chronic kidney disease from non-traditional causes (CKDnT) among workers and their communities around the world. In the changing climate, the organization is developing, supporting, and implementing evidence-based solutions to address workers’ health. As Nabil Bank has always been promoting various Sustainable Banking initiatives for effective contribution to the society, this first of its kind workshop has been conducted as a noble initiative to start a dialogue on the crucial component of the Nepalese economy i.e. migrant workers. The program was also supported by Nepal Remitters Association. The workshop which was held at Vivanta Hotel, Lalitpur on 15th April 2022 was attended by the higher level of authorities of the Bank along with officials from Ministry of Labor, Employment & Social Security, Ministry of Federal Affairs & General Administration, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Employment Board, ILO, Diplomatic Missions, various stakeholders from Nepal Remitters Association, Manpower Companies, Pravasi Nepali Coordination Committee, etc.  Speaking about the workshop, Mr. Upendra Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Chairman said that the works and researches conducted by Jason Glaser are very useful to our Nepali Migrant Workers before it is too late as it has been an eye opening session on the health issues caused by Climate Change. During the workshop, Mr. Glaser focused on the impact of climate change on the health of migrant workers. Furthermore, he mentioned that several chronic diseases are increasing in rural hot communities as temperature progressively rises worldwide amidst any correlation with traditional risk factors. Hence, it is imperative to raise a voice to improve worksite conditions and ensure adequate hydration of the migrant workers to combat the new type of kidney disease which is linked with temperature and climate and may be one of the first epidemics caused due to global warming. Similarly, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Nabil Bank’s CEO mentioned that the impact of the climate change on living organisms is high but small attentive measures can help everyone including the workers to mitigate the risk factors to some extent. For that, awareness amongst the migrant workers is quite crucial and for that Nabil Bank is always ready to assist in every way possible. The program was actively participated by all the participants who shared their views and experiences, including Mr. Prabin Adhikari, Executive Member of Nepal Remitters Association and Ms. Subarna Shrestha from Manpower Agency. As a closing remarks, Dr, Thaneswor Bhusal, Under Secretary of Ministry of Labor Employment and Social Security also shared some of his experiences and learnings about the effect of climate change on workers and also assured that anyone willing to work on such researches will be provided assistance with resources from their end. Mr. Bhusal expressed his gratitude towards Nabil Bank for acting as the bridge amongst all the stakeholders and bringing everyone in one single forum to discuss on the serious issues related to migrant workers. "
2022-04-18,"Commercial Banks Profit Rs. 46 Arba Till Falgun of FY, 3 Development Banks and 2 Finance Companies in Loss",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/profit-loss-bfi-2022-04-18,"Nepal Rastra Bank has unveiled the recent statistics covering the net profit of commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies for up to Falgun of the current fiscal year 2078/79. Data shows that commercial banks together have realized a total net profit of Rs. 46 Arba and 86 crores. Out of the 27 commercial banks, Global IME Bank stands at the top position with a net profit of Rs. 3 Arba and 46 crores. Likewise, NIC Asia Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 3 Arba and 29 crores. Meanwhile, Nabil Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 3.04 Arba. On the contrary, Civil Bank has the least net profit of Rs. 73 crores. Similarly, in the eight months of the current fiscal year 2078/79, development banks have succeeded to make a total net profit of Rs. 4 Arba and 32 crores. 3 of the 17 development bank have realized net losses during this period. Whereas,  Muktinath Bikas Bank has realized an impressive net profit of Rs. 82.44 crores, the highest in the industry. Likewise, Garima Bikas Bank stands in the second position with a net profit of Rs. 66.20 crores. Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank, with a net profit of Rs. 47.34 crores, stands in the third position. On the opposite, data from NRB shows that Corporate and Green Development Bank reported the least profit of Rs. 60 Lakhs and Rs. 1 Crore respectively. However, 3 development banks, viz, Karnali, Narayani, and Saptakoshi Development Bank reported net losses during the period. Finance companies have made a total net profit of Rs. 81.70 crores. Out of the 17 companies, two finance company reported a net loss in the first eight months, while the rest 15 are in a profit. Best Finance Company comes first on the list with a net profit of Rs. 13.31 crores. Likewise, ICFC Finance and Goodwill Finance stand in the second and third positions with a net profit of Rs. 12.60 crores and Rs. 9.4 crores respectively. However, Multi and C Merchant finance company have reported net losses of Rs. 21.80 lakhs and Rs. 54.2 lakhs respectively. Nepal Rastra Bank has unveiled the recent statistics covering the net profit of commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies for up to Falgun of the current fiscal year 2078/79. Data shows that commercial banks together have realized a total net profit of Rs. 46 Arba and 86 crores. Out of the 27 commercial banks, Global IME Bank stands at the top position with a net profit of Rs. 3 Arba and 46 crores. Likewise, NIC Asia Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 3 Arba and 29 crores. Meanwhile, Nabil Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 3.04 Arba. On the contrary, Civil Bank has the least net profit of Rs. 73 crores. Similarly, in the eight months of the current fiscal year 2078/79, development banks have succeeded to make a total net profit of Rs. 4 Arba and 32 crores. 3 of the 17 development bank have realized net losses during this period. Whereas,  Muktinath Bikas Bank has realized an impressive net profit of Rs. 82.44 crores, the highest in the industry. Likewise, Garima Bikas Bank stands in the second position with a net profit of Rs. 66.20 crores. Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank, with a net profit of Rs. 47.34 crores, stands in the third position. On the opposite, data from NRB shows that Corporate and Green Development Bank reported the least profit of Rs. 60 Lakhs and Rs. 1 Crore respectively. However, 3 development banks, viz, Karnali, Narayani, and Saptakoshi Development Bank reported net losses during the period. Finance companies have made a total net profit of Rs. 81.70 crores. Out of the 17 companies, two finance company reported a net loss in the first eight months, while the rest 15 are in a profit. Best Finance Company comes first on the list with a net profit of Rs. 13.31 crores. Likewise, ICFC Finance and Goodwill Finance stand in the second and third positions with a net profit of Rs. 12.60 crores and Rs. 9.4 crores respectively. However, Multi and C Merchant finance company have reported net losses of Rs. 21.80 lakhs and Rs. 54.2 lakhs respectively. Nepal Rastra Bank has unveiled the recent statistics covering the net profit of commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies for up to Falgun of the current fiscal year 2078/79. Data shows that commercial banks together have realized a total net profit of Rs. 46 Arba and 86 crores. Out of the 27 commercial banks, Global IME Bank stands at the top position with a net profit of Rs. 3 Arba and 46 crores. Likewise, NIC Asia Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 3 Arba and 29 crores. Meanwhile, Nabil Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 3.04 Arba. On the contrary, Civil Bank has the least net profit of Rs. 73 crores. Similarly, in the eight months of the current fiscal year 2078/79, development banks have succeeded to make a total net profit of Rs. 4 Arba and 32 crores. 3 of the 17 development bank have realized net losses during this period. Whereas,  Muktinath Bikas Bank has realized an impressive net profit of Rs. 82.44 crores, the highest in the industry. Likewise, Garima Bikas Bank stands in the second position with a net profit of Rs. 66.20 crores. Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank, with a net profit of Rs. 47.34 crores, stands in the third position. On the opposite, data from NRB shows that Corporate and Green Development Bank reported the least profit of Rs. 60 Lakhs and Rs. 1 Crore respectively. However, 3 development banks, viz, Karnali, Narayani, and Saptakoshi Development Bank reported net losses during the period. Finance companies have made a total net profit of Rs. 81.70 crores. Out of the 17 companies, two finance company reported a net loss in the first eight months, while the rest 15 are in a profit. Best Finance Company comes first on the list with a net profit of Rs. 13.31 crores. Likewise, ICFC Finance and Goodwill Finance stand in the second and third positions with a net profit of Rs. 12.60 crores and Rs. 9.4 crores respectively. However, Multi and C Merchant finance company have reported net losses of Rs. 21.80 lakhs and Rs. 54.2 lakhs respectively. "
2022-04-14,Nabil bank to provide 5% cash back to its female and youth QR merchants; offer to begin from Baisakh 1,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-provide-5-cash-back-to-its-female-and-youth-qr-merchants-offer-to-begin-from-baisakh-1-2022-04-14,"Nabil Bank has launched cash back scheme for its female QR merchants and other merchants who fall under the age category of 18 to 24 years.  the scheme will be in place from Baisakh 1 to 7, 2079 where the merchants will receive 5% cashback or upto Rs 200 per transaction and maximum of Rs 500 cashback per day. The bank currently has 146 branches, 180 ATM outlets and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents across the nation, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has launched cash back scheme for its female QR merchants and other merchants who fall under the age category of 18 to 24 years.  the scheme will be in place from Baisakh 1 to 7, 2079 where the merchants will receive 5% cashback or upto Rs 200 per transaction and maximum of Rs 500 cashback per day. The bank currently has 146 branches, 180 ATM outlets and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents across the nation, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has launched cash back scheme for its female QR merchants and other merchants who fall under the age category of 18 to 24 years.  the scheme will be in place from Baisakh 1 to 7, 2079 where the merchants will receive 5% cashback or upto Rs 200 per transaction and maximum of Rs 500 cashback per day. The bank currently has 146 branches, 180 ATM outlets and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents across the nation, as per the media statement. "
2022-04-13,Nabil Bank inks MoU with Heifer International; women entrepreneurs and small farmers to receive skill development training and affordable bank loan,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inks-mou-with-heifer-international-women-entrepreneurs-and-small-farmers-to-receive-skill-development-training-and-affordable-bank-loan-2022-04-12,"Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Heifer International Nepal to support in the livestock business of women entrepreneurs and small farmers.  The MoU was signed between CEO of the bank Mr. Anil Kesari Shah and National Director of Heifer International Dr. Subha Narayan Mahato amid a program. With the latest agreement, women entrepreneurs and small farmers will receive necessary skill development training from Heifer International while the bank will extend affordable credit facility to the trained manpower to run the business of their own, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Heifer International Nepal to support in the livestock business of women entrepreneurs and small farmers.  The MoU was signed between CEO of the bank Mr. Anil Kesari Shah and National Director of Heifer International Dr. Subha Narayan Mahato amid a program. With the latest agreement, women entrepreneurs and small farmers will receive necessary skill development training from Heifer International while the bank will extend affordable credit facility to the trained manpower to run the business of their own, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Heifer International Nepal to support in the livestock business of women entrepreneurs and small farmers.  The MoU was signed between CEO of the bank Mr. Anil Kesari Shah and National Director of Heifer International Dr. Subha Narayan Mahato amid a program. With the latest agreement, women entrepreneurs and small farmers will receive necessary skill development training from Heifer International while the bank will extend affordable credit facility to the trained manpower to run the business of their own, as per the media statement. "
2022-04-12,Major Highlights of the NABIL-NBB Merger,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-nbb-2022-04-11,"Two prominent banks in Nepal: Nabil Bank Limited and Nepal Bangladesh Bank are gearing up to commence joint operation after the acquisition of the latter by the former. Nepal Rastra Bank has already provided a Letter of Intent (LOI) to Nabil Bank for the acquisition of the Nepal Bangladesh Bank. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) inked a preliminary agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43. The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by the boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078.  This article analyzes the key facts and figures of the acquisition. The paid-up capital of Nabil Bank at the present is Rs. 18,496.19 million. Meanwhile, the paid-up capital of Nepal Bangladesh Bank is Rs. 10,085.40 million. The agreed-upon share swap ratio for the acquisition is 100: 43. Thus, shareholders owning 100 shares of Nepal Bangladesh Bank will get 43 shares of Nabil Bank (the company after acquisition). In more relevant terms, the additional paid-up capital contribution of Nepal Bangladesh Bank to the revamped will be 43% of NBB's currently maintained paid-up capital. Thus, the paid-up capital of the new company will be: New Paid-up = Paid-up capital of NABIL + NBB (share swap adjusted) = Rs. 18,496.19 million + (Rs. 10,085.40 million * 43%) = Rs. 18,496.19 million + Rs. 4,336.722 = Rs. 22,832.91 million The increased capital base will help the bank expand its business. The core capital will also be Rs. 44,000 million. Nabil Bank currently has a net worth of Rs. 34,084.80 million. Nepal Bangladesh Bank has a net worth of Rs. 15,852.31 million. Thus, the combined net worth of the revamped bank will be Rs. 49,937.10 million. The net worth per share will increase to Rs. 218.71, which is a result of Capital
Adjustment by Swap Ratio. In contrast, the banks currently have a net worth per share of Rs. 184.28 and Rs. 157.18 respectively.  After the acquisition, the bank will collect the highest deposit and forward the highest loans in the industry. The second quarterly figures of the current fiscal year show that the banks together would earn Rs. 317,504 million in deposits and forward Rs. 300,774 worth of loans in Q2. The acquisition is believed to have a positive impact on the deposit and lending figures. After the acquisition, the Annual Profit of the bank is expected to be more than Rs. 6 billion, the highest in the industry. In the second quarter of the fiscal year 2078/79 alone, their combined net profit totals a staggering Rs. 2,993 million. Based on the second quarter's net profitability figure, the earnings per share of the combined bank is Rs. 26.21. The EPS is expected to rise due to Capital Adjustment by Swap Ratio. The Capital Fund to RWA according to current estimates will be 13.62%, which will support business growth. The acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank will result in a wider network to support business growth. Immediately after the joint operation, there will be 16 extension counters and 235 branches with 2,301 employees. The bank will also have 292 ATM terminals and 16 lakh plus customers, making it one of the leading banks in the nation. The banks are looking for more branch networks to increase business volume. The workforce will likely increase from crude estimates in order to add more business. The banks have determined that the HR cost of NBB will increase by 50% at least. The company will be posted with the challenge to make an appropriate HR integration plan. NABIL gained around 295% from the lowest point before the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country. Being the leader in investor interest and size, NABIL is one of the major market movers. However, as the overall market itself went on a much-anticipated correction, the stock has been losing from its high on November 03, 2021.   Unadjusted Candlestick Chart, NABIL, Daily As of writing, NABIL is 26% below the high in the adjusted chart. Unadjusted charts (which do not consider the increase in the number of shares after bonus listing) are often deceptive.  Bonus Adjusted Candlestick Chart, NABIL, Daily Two prominent banks in Nepal: Nabil Bank Limited and Nepal Bangladesh Bank are gearing up to commence joint operation after the acquisition of the latter by the former. Nepal Rastra Bank has already provided a Letter of Intent (LOI) to Nabil Bank for the acquisition of the Nepal Bangladesh Bank. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) inked a preliminary agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43. The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by the boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078.  This article analyzes the key facts and figures of the acquisition. The paid-up capital of Nabil Bank at the present is Rs. 18,496.19 million. Meanwhile, the paid-up capital of Nepal Bangladesh Bank is Rs. 10,085.40 million. The agreed-upon share swap ratio for the acquisition is 100: 43. Thus, shareholders owning 100 shares of Nepal Bangladesh Bank will get 43 shares of Nabil Bank (the company after acquisition). In more relevant terms, the additional paid-up capital contribution of Nepal Bangladesh Bank to the revamped will be 43% of NBB's currently maintained paid-up capital. Thus, the paid-up capital of the new company will be: New Paid-up = Paid-up capital of NABIL + NBB (share swap adjusted) = Rs. 18,496.19 million + (Rs. 10,085.40 million * 43%) = Rs. 18,496.19 million + Rs. 4,336.722 = Rs. 22,832.91 million The increased capital base will help the bank expand its business. The core capital will also be Rs. 44,000 million. Nabil Bank currently has a net worth of Rs. 34,084.80 million. Nepal Bangladesh Bank has a net worth of Rs. 15,852.31 million. Thus, the combined net worth of the revamped bank will be Rs. 49,937.10 million. The net worth per share will increase to Rs. 218.71, which is a result of Capital
Adjustment by Swap Ratio. In contrast, the banks currently have a net worth per share of Rs. 184.28 and Rs. 157.18 respectively.  After the acquisition, the bank will collect the highest deposit and forward the highest loans in the industry. The second quarterly figures of the current fiscal year show that the banks together would earn Rs. 317,504 million in deposits and forward Rs. 300,774 worth of loans in Q2. The acquisition is believed to have a positive impact on the deposit and lending figures. After the acquisition, the Annual Profit of the bank is expected to be more than Rs. 6 billion, the highest in the industry. In the second quarter of the fiscal year 2078/79 alone, their combined net profit totals a staggering Rs. 2,993 million. Based on the second quarter's net profitability figure, the earnings per share of the combined bank is Rs. 26.21. The EPS is expected to rise due to Capital Adjustment by Swap Ratio. The Capital Fund to RWA according to current estimates will be 13.62%, which will support business growth. The acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank will result in a wider network to support business growth. Immediately after the joint operation, there will be 16 extension counters and 235 branches with 2,301 employees. The bank will also have 292 ATM terminals and 16 lakh plus customers, making it one of the leading banks in the nation. The banks are looking for more branch networks to increase business volume. The workforce will likely increase from crude estimates in order to add more business. The banks have determined that the HR cost of NBB will increase by 50% at least. The company will be posted with the challenge to make an appropriate HR integration plan. NABIL gained around 295% from the lowest point before the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country. Being the leader in investor interest and size, NABIL is one of the major market movers. However, as the overall market itself went on a much-anticipated correction, the stock has been losing from its high on November 03, 2021.   Unadjusted Candlestick Chart, NABIL, Daily As of writing, NABIL is 26% below the high in the adjusted chart. Unadjusted charts (which do not consider the increase in the number of shares after bonus listing) are often deceptive.  Bonus Adjusted Candlestick Chart, NABIL, Daily Two prominent banks in Nepal: Nabil Bank Limited and Nepal Bangladesh Bank are gearing up to commence joint operation after the acquisition of the latter by the former. Nepal Rastra Bank has already provided a Letter of Intent (LOI) to Nabil Bank for the acquisition of the Nepal Bangladesh Bank. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) inked a preliminary agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43. The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by the boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078.  This article analyzes the key facts and figures of the acquisition. The paid-up capital of Nabil Bank at the present is Rs. 18,496.19 million. Meanwhile, the paid-up capital of Nepal Bangladesh Bank is Rs. 10,085.40 million. The agreed-upon share swap ratio for the acquisition is 100: 43. Thus, shareholders owning 100 shares of Nepal Bangladesh Bank will get 43 shares of Nabil Bank (the company after acquisition). In more relevant terms, the additional paid-up capital contribution of Nepal Bangladesh Bank to the revamped will be 43% of NBB's currently maintained paid-up capital. Thus, the paid-up capital of the new company will be: New Paid-up = Paid-up capital of NABIL + NBB (share swap adjusted) = Rs. 18,496.19 million + (Rs. 10,085.40 million * 43%) = Rs. 18,496.19 million + Rs. 4,336.722 = Rs. 22,832.91 million The increased capital base will help the bank expand its business. The core capital will also be Rs. 44,000 million. Nabil Bank currently has a net worth of Rs. 34,084.80 million. Nepal Bangladesh Bank has a net worth of Rs. 15,852.31 million. Thus, the combined net worth of the revamped bank will be Rs. 49,937.10 million. The net worth per share will increase to Rs. 218.71, which is a result of Capital
Adjustment by Swap Ratio. In contrast, the banks currently have a net worth per share of Rs. 184.28 and Rs. 157.18 respectively.  After the acquisition, the bank will collect the highest deposit and forward the highest loans in the industry. The second quarterly figures of the current fiscal year show that the banks together would earn Rs. 317,504 million in deposits and forward Rs. 300,774 worth of loans in Q2. The acquisition is believed to have a positive impact on the deposit and lending figures. After the acquisition, the Annual Profit of the bank is expected to be more than Rs. 6 billion, the highest in the industry. In the second quarter of the fiscal year 2078/79 alone, their combined net profit totals a staggering Rs. 2,993 million. Based on the second quarter's net profitability figure, the earnings per share of the combined bank is Rs. 26.21. The EPS is expected to rise due to Capital Adjustment by Swap Ratio. The Capital Fund to RWA according to current estimates will be 13.62%, which will support business growth. The acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank will result in a wider network to support business growth. Immediately after the joint operation, there will be 16 extension counters and 235 branches with 2,301 employees. The bank will also have 292 ATM terminals and 16 lakh plus customers, making it one of the leading banks in the nation. The banks are looking for more branch networks to increase business volume. The workforce will likely increase from crude estimates in order to add more business. The banks have determined that the HR cost of NBB will increase by 50% at least. The company will be posted with the challenge to make an appropriate HR integration plan. NABIL gained around 295% from the lowest point before the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country. Being the leader in investor interest and size, NABIL is one of the major market movers. However, as the overall market itself went on a much-anticipated correction, the stock has been losing from its high on November 03, 2021.   Unadjusted Candlestick Chart, NABIL, Daily As of writing, NABIL is 26% below the high in the adjusted chart. Unadjusted charts (which do not consider the increase in the number of shares after bonus listing) are often deceptive.  Bonus Adjusted Candlestick Chart, NABIL, Daily "
2022-04-12,"Deposit Collection Up Rs. 3 Billion in Fourth Week of Chaitra, Lending Up Rs. 2 Billion",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/deposit-collection-up-rs-3-billion-in-fourth-week-of-chaitra-lending-up-rs-2-billion-2022-04-12,"The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the fourth week of Chaitra, 2078, i.e. till Chaitra 25. The Average CD ratio of the industry is 91.22%. The total deposit figure has risen by Rs. 3 billion in the third week. The total deposit figure is Rs. 4,334 billion. Rs. 4,221 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 113 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone up by Rs. 2 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,177 billion. Rs. 4,134 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 44 billion is in foreign currency. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the fourth week of Chaitra, 2078, i.e. till Chaitra 25. The Average CD ratio of the industry is 91.22%. The total deposit figure has risen by Rs. 3 billion in the third week. The total deposit figure is Rs. 4,334 billion. Rs. 4,221 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 113 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone up by Rs. 2 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,177 billion. Rs. 4,134 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 44 billion is in foreign currency. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the fourth week of Chaitra, 2078, i.e. till Chaitra 25. The Average CD ratio of the industry is 91.22%. The total deposit figure has risen by Rs. 3 billion in the third week. The total deposit figure is Rs. 4,334 billion. Rs. 4,221 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 113 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone up by Rs. 2 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,177 billion. Rs. 4,134 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 44 billion is in foreign currency. "
2022-04-11,"Commercial Banks Keep Interest Rates Unchanged for Baisakh, LC Prohibited for Non-Essential Import",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-keep-interest-rates-unchanged-for-baisakh-2022-04-11,"Commercial Banks have agreed to keep interest rates unaltered for the month of Baisakh. A meeting of the Nepal Bankers’ Association, the umbrella association of the commercial banks in Nepal, held on Sunday decided to retain the currently maintained interest rates for the upcoming month of Baisakh. Commercial Banks had raised their interest rates for the month of Falgun after keeping their interest rate profile unchanged in Magh. The rates were not changed for Chaitra. With the new agreement between the banks, the month of Baisakh will also not witness any changes in the interest rates of commercial banks. Thus, most commercial banks provide a 6.03% interest rate p.a. for depositors on savings. Meanwhile, individuals will get a maximum interest payment of 11.03% p.a. on fixed deposits. On the other hand, institutions will get a 10.03% interest payment p.a. on fixed deposits. Furthermore, it was also decided in the meeting that commercial banks will not allow opening of Letter of Credit (LC) for non-essential imports. In an emergency meeting previously held with the CEOs of 27 commercial banks, Nepal Rastra Bank had strongly instructed the banks not to open letters of credit (LC) for the purpose of importing non-essential items. The central bank gave strict instructions as a brute force way to combat the deficit in the balance of payments. The balance of payments of a country, also known as the balance of international payments, is the difference between all money flowing into the country in a particular period of time and the outflow of money to the rest of the world. Meanwhile, the letter of credit, or ""credit letter,"" is a letter from a bank guaranteeing that a buyer's payment to a seller will be received on time. LCs are integral to establishing trust among cross-border traders, and they ensure an international transaction happens. Commercial Banks have agreed to keep interest rates unaltered for the month of Baisakh. A meeting of the Nepal Bankers’ Association, the umbrella association of the commercial banks in Nepal, held on Sunday decided to retain the currently maintained interest rates for the upcoming month of Baisakh. Commercial Banks had raised their interest rates for the month of Falgun after keeping their interest rate profile unchanged in Magh. The rates were not changed for Chaitra. With the new agreement between the banks, the month of Baisakh will also not witness any changes in the interest rates of commercial banks. Thus, most commercial banks provide a 6.03% interest rate p.a. for depositors on savings. Meanwhile, individuals will get a maximum interest payment of 11.03% p.a. on fixed deposits. On the other hand, institutions will get a 10.03% interest payment p.a. on fixed deposits. Furthermore, it was also decided in the meeting that commercial banks will not allow opening of Letter of Credit (LC) for non-essential imports. In an emergency meeting previously held with the CEOs of 27 commercial banks, Nepal Rastra Bank had strongly instructed the banks not to open letters of credit (LC) for the purpose of importing non-essential items. The central bank gave strict instructions as a brute force way to combat the deficit in the balance of payments. The balance of payments of a country, also known as the balance of international payments, is the difference between all money flowing into the country in a particular period of time and the outflow of money to the rest of the world. Meanwhile, the letter of credit, or ""credit letter,"" is a letter from a bank guaranteeing that a buyer's payment to a seller will be received on time. LCs are integral to establishing trust among cross-border traders, and they ensure an international transaction happens. Commercial Banks have agreed to keep interest rates unaltered for the month of Baisakh. A meeting of the Nepal Bankers’ Association, the umbrella association of the commercial banks in Nepal, held on Sunday decided to retain the currently maintained interest rates for the upcoming month of Baisakh. Commercial Banks had raised their interest rates for the month of Falgun after keeping their interest rate profile unchanged in Magh. The rates were not changed for Chaitra. With the new agreement between the banks, the month of Baisakh will also not witness any changes in the interest rates of commercial banks. Thus, most commercial banks provide a 6.03% interest rate p.a. for depositors on savings. Meanwhile, individuals will get a maximum interest payment of 11.03% p.a. on fixed deposits. On the other hand, institutions will get a 10.03% interest payment p.a. on fixed deposits. Furthermore, it was also decided in the meeting that commercial banks will not allow opening of Letter of Credit (LC) for non-essential imports. In an emergency meeting previously held with the CEOs of 27 commercial banks, Nepal Rastra Bank had strongly instructed the banks not to open letters of credit (LC) for the purpose of importing non-essential items. The central bank gave strict instructions as a brute force way to combat the deficit in the balance of payments. The balance of payments of a country, also known as the balance of international payments, is the difference between all money flowing into the country in a particular period of time and the outflow of money to the rest of the world. Meanwhile, the letter of credit, or ""credit letter,"" is a letter from a bank guaranteeing that a buyer's payment to a seller will be received on time. LCs are integral to establishing trust among cross-border traders, and they ensure an international transaction happens. "
2022-04-07,Nabil Bank begins accepting application for Nabil SSE certificate program; aims to train 700 youths across the nation and promote social entrepreneurship,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-begins-accepting-application-for-nabil-sse-certificate-program-aims-to-train-700-youths-across-the-nation-and-promote-social-entrepreneurship-2022-04-07,"Nabil Bank has started accepting application for its Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship certificate program.  The bank had already begun fellowship program under its Nabil SSE program. The certificate level program will address the areas like skill development, agriculture, education, health, art, community welfare and others so as to promote social entrepreneurship and the SDG goals, as per the media statement. The whole program of Nabil SSE aims to train 700 youths from seven different colleges in all seven provinces so as to promote the environment of social entrepreneurship in the nation, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has started accepting application for its Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship certificate program.  The bank had already begun fellowship program under its Nabil SSE program. The certificate level program will address the areas like skill development, agriculture, education, health, art, community welfare and others so as to promote social entrepreneurship and the SDG goals, as per the media statement. The whole program of Nabil SSE aims to train 700 youths from seven different colleges in all seven provinces so as to promote the environment of social entrepreneurship in the nation, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has started accepting application for its Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship certificate program.  The bank had already begun fellowship program under its Nabil SSE program. The certificate level program will address the areas like skill development, agriculture, education, health, art, community welfare and others so as to promote social entrepreneurship and the SDG goals, as per the media statement. The whole program of Nabil SSE aims to train 700 youths from seven different colleges in all seven provinces so as to promote the environment of social entrepreneurship in the nation, as per the media statement. "
2022-04-06,"Deposit Collection Chokes in Chaitra's Third Week, Lending Up Rs. 5B",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/deposit-lending-2022-04-06,"The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the third week of Chaitra, 2078, i.e. till Chaitra 18. The average CD ratio of the industry for the month of the week was 91.20%. The total deposit figure has risen by Rs. 1 billion in the second week. The total deposit figure is Rs. 4,331 billion. Rs. 4,228 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 102 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone up by Rs. 5 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,175 billion. Rs. 4,130 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 46 billion is in foreign currency.   The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the third week of Chaitra, 2078, i.e. till Chaitra 18. The average CD ratio of the industry for the month of the week was 91.20%. The total deposit figure has risen by Rs. 1 billion in the second week. The total deposit figure is Rs. 4,331 billion. Rs. 4,228 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 102 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone up by Rs. 5 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,175 billion. Rs. 4,130 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 46 billion is in foreign currency.   The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the third week of Chaitra, 2078, i.e. till Chaitra 18. The average CD ratio of the industry for the month of the week was 91.20%. The total deposit figure has risen by Rs. 1 billion in the second week. The total deposit figure is Rs. 4,331 billion. Rs. 4,228 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 102 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone up by Rs. 5 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,175 billion. Rs. 4,130 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 46 billion is in foreign currency.   "
2022-04-05,"Non-Essential Imports Prohibited to Ease Liquidity Crunch, Banks to Constrict Credit Flow",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/non-essential-imports-prohibited-to-ease-liquidity-crunch-banks-to-constrict-credit-flow-2022-04-05,"Nepal Rastra Bank has strongly instructed commercial banks not to open letters of credit (LC) for the purpose of importing non-essential items. The central bank gave such strict instructions in an emergency meeting held with the CEOs of 27 commercial banks. The central bank gave strict instructions as a brute force way to combat the deficit in the balance of payments. The balance of payments of a country, also known as the balance of international payments, is the difference between all money flowing into the country in a particular period of time and the outflow of money to the rest of the world.  The letter of credit, or ""credit letter,"" is a letter from a bank guaranteeing that a buyer's payment to a seller will be received on time. LCs are integral to establishing trust among cross-border traders, and they ensure an international transaction happens. The central bank has also instructed commercial banks to maintain their CD ratio. The CD ratio refers to the credit-deposit ratio of a bank. The higher the CD ratio, the higher the received deposits in banks have been forwarded as loans, hence the lower is the available liquidity. Commercial banks have also been instructed to slow down lending and eventually bring it to a halt until the liquidity scenario improves.  Nepal Rastra Bank has strongly instructed commercial banks not to open letters of credit (LC) for the purpose of importing non-essential items. The central bank gave such strict instructions in an emergency meeting held with the CEOs of 27 commercial banks. The central bank gave strict instructions as a brute force way to combat the deficit in the balance of payments. The balance of payments of a country, also known as the balance of international payments, is the difference between all money flowing into the country in a particular period of time and the outflow of money to the rest of the world.  The letter of credit, or ""credit letter,"" is a letter from a bank guaranteeing that a buyer's payment to a seller will be received on time. LCs are integral to establishing trust among cross-border traders, and they ensure an international transaction happens. The central bank has also instructed commercial banks to maintain their CD ratio. The CD ratio refers to the credit-deposit ratio of a bank. The higher the CD ratio, the higher the received deposits in banks have been forwarded as loans, hence the lower is the available liquidity. Commercial banks have also been instructed to slow down lending and eventually bring it to a halt until the liquidity scenario improves.  Nepal Rastra Bank has strongly instructed commercial banks not to open letters of credit (LC) for the purpose of importing non-essential items. The central bank gave such strict instructions in an emergency meeting held with the CEOs of 27 commercial banks. The central bank gave strict instructions as a brute force way to combat the deficit in the balance of payments. The balance of payments of a country, also known as the balance of international payments, is the difference between all money flowing into the country in a particular period of time and the outflow of money to the rest of the world.  The letter of credit, or ""credit letter,"" is a letter from a bank guaranteeing that a buyer's payment to a seller will be received on time. LCs are integral to establishing trust among cross-border traders, and they ensure an international transaction happens. The central bank has also instructed commercial banks to maintain their CD ratio. The CD ratio refers to the credit-deposit ratio of a bank. The higher the CD ratio, the higher the received deposits in banks have been forwarded as loans, hence the lower is the available liquidity. Commercial banks have also been instructed to slow down lending and eventually bring it to a halt until the liquidity scenario improves.  "
2022-03-29,"Bonus Shares of NABIL, EDBL, and SMFBS Finally Listed in NEPSE",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/bonus-shares-of-nabil-edbl-and-smfbs-finally-listed-in-nepse-2022-03-29,"4,65,17,355.89 unit bonus shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) have been listed in NEPSE. The 37th AGM of the company held on 30th Poush, 2078 endorsed a 38% dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. The meeting of the board of directors held on Kartik 16 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 13.84 Arba. 33.6% bonus shares and 4.4% cash dividend (including tax) were distributed. The same bonus shares are now listed in NEPSE. Poush 16 was the book closure date. Thus, shareholders maintained before that day are entitled to the dividend payout. NABIL closed at Rs. 1,017 yesterday. Similarly, 9,73,345.4697 unit bonus shares of Excel Development Bank Limited (EDBL) have been listed in NEPSE. The 15th AGM of the company held on Ashoj 16 endorsed a 12.63% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77L 12% bonus shares and 0.63% cash dividend (for tax purposes) from the paid-up capital. Since the paid-up capital of the company during dividend distribution was Rs. 81,11,21,224.72, the bonus shares are worth Rs. 9,73,34,546.97 and the cash dividend amounts to Rs. 51,22,870.89. The same bonus shares are now listed in NEPSE. Ashoj 01 was the book closure date. Thus, shareholders maintained before that day are entitled to the dividend payout. EDBL closed at Rs. 442.10 yesterday. 2,97,321.50 unit bonus shares of Swabhimaan Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SMFBS) have also been listed in NEPSE. The 5th AGM of the company held on 8th Poush, 2078 endorsed a 34% dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. The meeting of the board of directors held on Ashoj 17 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 9,20,50,000. 32.3% bonus shares and 1.7% cash dividend (tax purposes) were proposed. Thus, the bonus shares are a little over Rs. 2.97 crores and the cash dividend is worth a little over Rs. 15.64 lakhs. The same bonus shares are now listed in NEPSE. Mangsir 23 was the book closure date. Thus, shareholders maintained before that day are entitled to the dividend payout. SMFBS closed at Rs. 1,810 yesterday. 4,65,17,355.89 unit bonus shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) have been listed in NEPSE. The 37th AGM of the company held on 30th Poush, 2078 endorsed a 38% dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. The meeting of the board of directors held on Kartik 16 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 13.84 Arba. 33.6% bonus shares and 4.4% cash dividend (including tax) were distributed. The same bonus shares are now listed in NEPSE. Poush 16 was the book closure date. Thus, shareholders maintained before that day are entitled to the dividend payout. NABIL closed at Rs. 1,017 yesterday. Similarly, 9,73,345.4697 unit bonus shares of Excel Development Bank Limited (EDBL) have been listed in NEPSE. The 15th AGM of the company held on Ashoj 16 endorsed a 12.63% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77L 12% bonus shares and 0.63% cash dividend (for tax purposes) from the paid-up capital. Since the paid-up capital of the company during dividend distribution was Rs. 81,11,21,224.72, the bonus shares are worth Rs. 9,73,34,546.97 and the cash dividend amounts to Rs. 51,22,870.89. The same bonus shares are now listed in NEPSE. Ashoj 01 was the book closure date. Thus, shareholders maintained before that day are entitled to the dividend payout. EDBL closed at Rs. 442.10 yesterday. 2,97,321.50 unit bonus shares of Swabhimaan Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SMFBS) have also been listed in NEPSE. The 5th AGM of the company held on 8th Poush, 2078 endorsed a 34% dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. The meeting of the board of directors held on Ashoj 17 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 9,20,50,000. 32.3% bonus shares and 1.7% cash dividend (tax purposes) were proposed. Thus, the bonus shares are a little over Rs. 2.97 crores and the cash dividend is worth a little over Rs. 15.64 lakhs. The same bonus shares are now listed in NEPSE. Mangsir 23 was the book closure date. Thus, shareholders maintained before that day are entitled to the dividend payout. SMFBS closed at Rs. 1,810 yesterday. 4,65,17,355.89 unit bonus shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) have been listed in NEPSE. The 37th AGM of the company held on 30th Poush, 2078 endorsed a 38% dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. The meeting of the board of directors held on Kartik 16 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 13.84 Arba. 33.6% bonus shares and 4.4% cash dividend (including tax) were distributed. The same bonus shares are now listed in NEPSE. Poush 16 was the book closure date. Thus, shareholders maintained before that day are entitled to the dividend payout. NABIL closed at Rs. 1,017 yesterday. Similarly, 9,73,345.4697 unit bonus shares of Excel Development Bank Limited (EDBL) have been listed in NEPSE. The 15th AGM of the company held on Ashoj 16 endorsed a 12.63% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77L 12% bonus shares and 0.63% cash dividend (for tax purposes) from the paid-up capital. Since the paid-up capital of the company during dividend distribution was Rs. 81,11,21,224.72, the bonus shares are worth Rs. 9,73,34,546.97 and the cash dividend amounts to Rs. 51,22,870.89. The same bonus shares are now listed in NEPSE. Ashoj 01 was the book closure date. Thus, shareholders maintained before that day are entitled to the dividend payout. EDBL closed at Rs. 442.10 yesterday. 2,97,321.50 unit bonus shares of Swabhimaan Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SMFBS) have also been listed in NEPSE. The 5th AGM of the company held on 8th Poush, 2078 endorsed a 34% dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. The meeting of the board of directors held on Ashoj 17 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 9,20,50,000. 32.3% bonus shares and 1.7% cash dividend (tax purposes) were proposed. Thus, the bonus shares are a little over Rs. 2.97 crores and the cash dividend is worth a little over Rs. 15.64 lakhs. The same bonus shares are now listed in NEPSE. Mangsir 23 was the book closure date. Thus, shareholders maintained before that day are entitled to the dividend payout. SMFBS closed at Rs. 1,810 yesterday. "
2022-03-28,Total Deposit and Lending in Commercial Banks Rise Rs. 2B Each in Second Week of Chaitra,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/total-deposit-and-lending-in-commercial-banks-rise-rs-2b-each-in-second-week-of-chaitra-2022-03-28,"The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the second week of Chaitra, 2078, i.e. till Chaitra 11. The average CD ratio of the industry for the month of the week was 91.13%. The total deposit figure has risen by Rs. 2 billion in the second week. The total deposit figure is at Rs. 4,330 billion. Rs. 4,228 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 102 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone up by Rs. 2 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,170 billion. Rs. 4,122 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 47 billion is in foreign currency. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the second week of Chaitra, 2078, i.e. till Chaitra 11. The average CD ratio of the industry for the month of the week was 91.13%. The total deposit figure has risen by Rs. 2 billion in the second week. The total deposit figure is at Rs. 4,330 billion. Rs. 4,228 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 102 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone up by Rs. 2 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,170 billion. Rs. 4,122 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 47 billion is in foreign currency. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the second week of Chaitra, 2078, i.e. till Chaitra 11. The average CD ratio of the industry for the month of the week was 91.13%. The total deposit figure has risen by Rs. 2 billion in the second week. The total deposit figure is at Rs. 4,330 billion. Rs. 4,228 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 102 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone up by Rs. 2 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,170 billion. Rs. 4,122 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 47 billion is in foreign currency. "
2022-03-27,Nabil Bank installs Biodegradable Prayer Flags at Boudhanath Stupa to promote Sustainability,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-installs-biodegradable-prayer-flags-at-boudhanath-stupa-to-promote-sustainability-2022-03-27,"Considering the growing concerns over climate change in the world, Nabil Bank has launched an eco-friendly awareness campaign on the occasion of Earth Hour that is celebrated across the world on 26 March 2022 by replacing the prayer flags at Boudhanath Stupa with Biodegradable Prayer Flags. As the old prayer flags are made from nylon cloth and rope, they have been replaced with biodegradable ones which are made out of eco-friendly materials.  For this campaign, the Bank has partnered with its Sustainable Banking customer, Ms. Ang Dolma Sherpa who started her enterprise of producing biodegradable prayer flags with the help of a loan she availed from Nabil Bank. Through this initiative, Nabil Bank not only aims to promote the use of biodegradable materials in Boudhanath Stupa, but also intends to encourage social entrepreneurs like Ms. Ang Dolma Sherpa who have actively been contributing towards sustainability by producing eco-friendly products. During the placement ceremony of biodegradable prayer flags, Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Chairman of Nabil Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank, Dr. Ghana Shyam Gurung, Country Representative of WWF, Ani Choying Drolma, Singer and Social Worker, and Mr. Chandraman Lama, Chairman of Shree Boudhanath Area Development Committee, along with numerous dignitaries and guests from Embassies and INGOs, emphasized on the need to give continuation to the campaign. Moreover, all the guests expressed their solidarity towards the campaign to use biodegradable goods by signing on the Prayer Flags. Nabil Bank has been undertaking various initiatives to Promote Sustainability as a part of its Corporate Social Responsibility. In the past year, the Bank has been working towards supporting sustainable development by investing in green enterprises, agriculture, renewable energy, and encouraging such enterprises through Nabil Sustainable Banking. With a belief that sustainability begins at home, Nabil Sustainable Banking prioritizes activities that connect different sectors and individuals and contribute towards environmental protection. According to various studies, Nepal falls in the fourth rank in the world to be at risk of climate change. Nabil has launched this initiative to aware everyone of the need to protect the environment as the effects of climate change will increase the impact of disasters. The bank aims to continue such campaigns in the coming days to promote the use of biodegradable materials. Considering the growing concerns over climate change in the world, Nabil Bank has launched an eco-friendly awareness campaign on the occasion of Earth Hour that is celebrated across the world on 26 March 2022 by replacing the prayer flags at Boudhanath Stupa with Biodegradable Prayer Flags. As the old prayer flags are made from nylon cloth and rope, they have been replaced with biodegradable ones which are made out of eco-friendly materials.  For this campaign, the Bank has partnered with its Sustainable Banking customer, Ms. Ang Dolma Sherpa who started her enterprise of producing biodegradable prayer flags with the help of a loan she availed from Nabil Bank. Through this initiative, Nabil Bank not only aims to promote the use of biodegradable materials in Boudhanath Stupa, but also intends to encourage social entrepreneurs like Ms. Ang Dolma Sherpa who have actively been contributing towards sustainability by producing eco-friendly products. During the placement ceremony of biodegradable prayer flags, Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Chairman of Nabil Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank, Dr. Ghana Shyam Gurung, Country Representative of WWF, Ani Choying Drolma, Singer and Social Worker, and Mr. Chandraman Lama, Chairman of Shree Boudhanath Area Development Committee, along with numerous dignitaries and guests from Embassies and INGOs, emphasized on the need to give continuation to the campaign. Moreover, all the guests expressed their solidarity towards the campaign to use biodegradable goods by signing on the Prayer Flags. Nabil Bank has been undertaking various initiatives to Promote Sustainability as a part of its Corporate Social Responsibility. In the past year, the Bank has been working towards supporting sustainable development by investing in green enterprises, agriculture, renewable energy, and encouraging such enterprises through Nabil Sustainable Banking. With a belief that sustainability begins at home, Nabil Sustainable Banking prioritizes activities that connect different sectors and individuals and contribute towards environmental protection. According to various studies, Nepal falls in the fourth rank in the world to be at risk of climate change. Nabil has launched this initiative to aware everyone of the need to protect the environment as the effects of climate change will increase the impact of disasters. The bank aims to continue such campaigns in the coming days to promote the use of biodegradable materials. Considering the growing concerns over climate change in the world, Nabil Bank has launched an eco-friendly awareness campaign on the occasion of Earth Hour that is celebrated across the world on 26 March 2022 by replacing the prayer flags at Boudhanath Stupa with Biodegradable Prayer Flags. As the old prayer flags are made from nylon cloth and rope, they have been replaced with biodegradable ones which are made out of eco-friendly materials.  For this campaign, the Bank has partnered with its Sustainable Banking customer, Ms. Ang Dolma Sherpa who started her enterprise of producing biodegradable prayer flags with the help of a loan she availed from Nabil Bank. Through this initiative, Nabil Bank not only aims to promote the use of biodegradable materials in Boudhanath Stupa, but also intends to encourage social entrepreneurs like Ms. Ang Dolma Sherpa who have actively been contributing towards sustainability by producing eco-friendly products. During the placement ceremony of biodegradable prayer flags, Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Chairman of Nabil Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank, Dr. Ghana Shyam Gurung, Country Representative of WWF, Ani Choying Drolma, Singer and Social Worker, and Mr. Chandraman Lama, Chairman of Shree Boudhanath Area Development Committee, along with numerous dignitaries and guests from Embassies and INGOs, emphasized on the need to give continuation to the campaign. Moreover, all the guests expressed their solidarity towards the campaign to use biodegradable goods by signing on the Prayer Flags. Nabil Bank has been undertaking various initiatives to Promote Sustainability as a part of its Corporate Social Responsibility. In the past year, the Bank has been working towards supporting sustainable development by investing in green enterprises, agriculture, renewable energy, and encouraging such enterprises through Nabil Sustainable Banking. With a belief that sustainability begins at home, Nabil Sustainable Banking prioritizes activities that connect different sectors and individuals and contribute towards environmental protection. According to various studies, Nepal falls in the fourth rank in the world to be at risk of climate change. Nabil has launched this initiative to aware everyone of the need to protect the environment as the effects of climate change will increase the impact of disasters. The bank aims to continue such campaigns in the coming days to promote the use of biodegradable materials. "
2022-03-24,Nabil Bank collaborates with Agro Expo 2078; reiterates to extend loans to agro sector via its Nabil Digo Banking platform,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-collaborates-with-agro-expo-2078-reiterates-to-extend-loans-to-agro-sector-via-its-nabil-digo-banking-platform-2022-03-24,"Nabil Bank has collaborated with Agriculture Expo 2078 which has kickstarted at Bharatpur from Chaitra 9 and will continue till 12, 2078.  The event with Nabil Bank as one of the major sponsors has received a commitment from Nabil Bank where its chairman Mr. Upendra Paudel and CEO Mr. Anil Kesari Shah have both reiterated the bank’s commitment to extend loans in the agro sector of the nation as envisioned by the Nepal Rastra Bank and Nepal Government to uplift the agriculture sector of the nation, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has collaborated with Agriculture Expo 2078 which has kickstarted at Bharatpur from Chaitra 9 and will continue till 12, 2078.  The event with Nabil Bank as one of the major sponsors has received a commitment from Nabil Bank where its chairman Mr. Upendra Paudel and CEO Mr. Anil Kesari Shah have both reiterated the bank’s commitment to extend loans in the agro sector of the nation as envisioned by the Nepal Rastra Bank and Nepal Government to uplift the agriculture sector of the nation, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has collaborated with Agriculture Expo 2078 which has kickstarted at Bharatpur from Chaitra 9 and will continue till 12, 2078.  The event with Nabil Bank as one of the major sponsors has received a commitment from Nabil Bank where its chairman Mr. Upendra Paudel and CEO Mr. Anil Kesari Shah have both reiterated the bank’s commitment to extend loans in the agro sector of the nation as envisioned by the Nepal Rastra Bank and Nepal Government to uplift the agriculture sector of the nation, as per the media statement. "
2022-03-23,Nabil Bank joins voices with acid attack survivors of Nepal; launches awareness video to uphold the courage of acid attack survivor Ms. Basanti Pariyar,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-joins-voices-with-acid-attack-survivors-of-nepal-launches-awareness-video-to-uphold-the-courage-of-acid-attack-survivor-ms-basanti-pariyar-2022-03-23,"Nabil Bank has launched Basanti Inspirational Figure campaign so as to present the struggles and triumph of the acid attack surviver Ms. Basanti Pariyar who faced the acid attack as well as the grievous murder attempt by her perpetrator.  To recognize the difficult but powerful journey of Ms. Pariyar, Nabil Bank has released an awareness video against the heinous crime of acid attack. The bank has also organized a panel discussion on the various legal and social issues pertaining to the acid attack in Nepal that comprises of several activists working for the rights and betterment of acid attack survivors, as per the media statement.  Nabil Bank has launched Basanti Inspirational Figure campaign so as to present the struggles and triumph of the acid attack surviver Ms. Basanti Pariyar who faced the acid attack as well as the grievous murder attempt by her perpetrator.  To recognize the difficult but powerful journey of Ms. Pariyar, Nabil Bank has released an awareness video against the heinous crime of acid attack. The bank has also organized a panel discussion on the various legal and social issues pertaining to the acid attack in Nepal that comprises of several activists working for the rights and betterment of acid attack survivors, as per the media statement.  Nabil Bank has launched Basanti Inspirational Figure campaign so as to present the struggles and triumph of the acid attack surviver Ms. Basanti Pariyar who faced the acid attack as well as the grievous murder attempt by her perpetrator.  To recognize the difficult but powerful journey of Ms. Pariyar, Nabil Bank has released an awareness video against the heinous crime of acid attack. The bank has also organized a panel discussion on the various legal and social issues pertaining to the acid attack in Nepal that comprises of several activists working for the rights and betterment of acid attack survivors, as per the media statement.  "
2022-03-22,Nabil Bank collaborates with female tourism entrepreneurs of Nepal; to bring women-led businesses under network of QR payment,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-collaborates-with-female-tourism-entrepreneurs-of-nepal-to-bring-women-led-businesses-under-network-of-qr-payment-2022-03-22,"Nabil Bank has partnered with Association of Tourism Women Entrepreneurs of Nepal to promote QR code payment and digital banking products.  The MoU was signed between Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya and chair of the organization Mr. Renu Thapa following which the bank handed over the QR codes to the female entrepreneurs, as per the media statement. The bank aims to bring more women to run and led businesses in the network of QR payment and enable the young generation to make use of the digital banking technologies with these kinds of agreement, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has partnered with Association of Tourism Women Entrepreneurs of Nepal to promote QR code payment and digital banking products.  The MoU was signed between Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya and chair of the organization Mr. Renu Thapa following which the bank handed over the QR codes to the female entrepreneurs, as per the media statement. The bank aims to bring more women to run and led businesses in the network of QR payment and enable the young generation to make use of the digital banking technologies with these kinds of agreement, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has partnered with Association of Tourism Women Entrepreneurs of Nepal to promote QR code payment and digital banking products.  The MoU was signed between Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya and chair of the organization Mr. Renu Thapa following which the bank handed over the QR codes to the female entrepreneurs, as per the media statement. The bank aims to bring more women to run and led businesses in the network of QR payment and enable the young generation to make use of the digital banking technologies with these kinds of agreement, as per the media statement. "
2022-03-18,"Hopeful Growth in Deposit in Last Week of Falgun, Lending Also Rises",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/hopeful-growth-in-deposit-in-last-week-of-falgun-lending-also-rises-2022-03-18,"The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the final week of Falgun, 2078. The average CD ratio of the industry for the month of Falgun was 90.99%. The total deposit figure has risen by Rs. 7 billion in the final week. The total deposit figure is at Rs. 4,333 billion. Rs. 4,236 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 96 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone up by Rs. 3 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,172 billion. Rs. 4,120 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 52 billion is in foreign currency. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the final week of Falgun, 2078. The average CD ratio of the industry for the month of Falgun was 90.99%. The total deposit figure has risen by Rs. 7 billion in the final week. The total deposit figure is at Rs. 4,333 billion. Rs. 4,236 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 96 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone up by Rs. 3 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,172 billion. Rs. 4,120 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 52 billion is in foreign currency. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the end of the final week of Falgun, 2078. The average CD ratio of the industry for the month of Falgun was 90.99%. The total deposit figure has risen by Rs. 7 billion in the final week. The total deposit figure is at Rs. 4,333 billion. Rs. 4,236 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 96 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone up by Rs. 3 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,172 billion. Rs. 4,120 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 52 billion is in foreign currency. "
2022-03-18,First-ever Agro Loan Expo to kickstart at Chitwan on Chaitra 9; one-stop destination for agro entrepreneurs to find suitable agro machinery and agro loan schemes,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/first-ever-agro-loan-expo-to-kickstart-at-chitwan-on-chaitra-9-one-stop-destination-for-agro-entrepreneurs-to-find-suitable-agro-machinery-and-agro-loan-schemes-2022-03-18,"RnD Innovative Solutions and Nepal Agro Machinery Traders Association are jointly organizing the first-ever agro loan fair in South Asia targeting the agro sector of Nepal beginning from Chaitra 9 to 12, 2078 at Expo Hall, Bharatpur of Chitwan.  The expo is supported by Nabil Bank and Agriculture Development Bank as title sponsors and is expected to connect the different service providers and the financial institutions with their agro loan services to the farmers and agro entrepreneurs so as to find the required service at a single place, as per the media statement. RnD Innovative Solutions and Nepal Agro Machinery Traders Association are jointly organizing the first-ever agro loan fair in South Asia targeting the agro sector of Nepal beginning from Chaitra 9 to 12, 2078 at Expo Hall, Bharatpur of Chitwan.  The expo is supported by Nabil Bank and Agriculture Development Bank as title sponsors and is expected to connect the different service providers and the financial institutions with their agro loan services to the farmers and agro entrepreneurs so as to find the required service at a single place, as per the media statement. RnD Innovative Solutions and Nepal Agro Machinery Traders Association are jointly organizing the first-ever agro loan fair in South Asia targeting the agro sector of Nepal beginning from Chaitra 9 to 12, 2078 at Expo Hall, Bharatpur of Chitwan.  The expo is supported by Nabil Bank and Agriculture Development Bank as title sponsors and is expected to connect the different service providers and the financial institutions with their agro loan services to the farmers and agro entrepreneurs so as to find the required service at a single place, as per the media statement. "
2022-03-18,Nabil Bank signs MOU with Nepal Mobile Distributors Association; MoU to benefit mobile phone traders with SME loan facility,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-signs-mou-with-nepal-mobile-distributors-association-mou-to-benefit-mobile-phone-traders-with-sme-loan-facility-2022-03-18,"Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank has collaborated with Nepal Mobile Distributors Association to provide Channel Financing Loan along with various other SME loan facilities to its registered members.  Under this strategic partnership, the associated mobile distributors across the nation shall benefit through the Channel Financing facility, which connects the network of retailers of registered mobile distributors with the bank and provides assured working capital limit as Channel Financing loan with attractive pricing & collateral comfort. The major attraction of the Channel Financing loan is that it allows distributors to receive the full value of bills issued to the retailers through banking financing. Furthermore, the registered members can avail various other SME loan facilities to meet their financing requirements for sustainable growth. Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Nabil Bank’s Head - SME & MF Division and Mr. Dinesh Chulyadyo, President of NMDA, Kathmandu have signed the Memorandum of Understanding on 14 March 2022 at Nabil SME & MF Hub, Tripureshwor in the presence of Mr. Manoj Kumar Yadav, Nabil Bank’s Manager - Microfinance Division and Mr. Gri Nath Tripathi, NMDA’s General Secretary. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Basnet (Danil) stated ‘Nabil Bank is focused towards providing financial services to the general public and businesses through credit creation and facilitating them as required so as to ensure sustainable growth of this segment. Through this partnership with NMDA, the Bank aims to support its members in managing their working capital and cash flow shortages through Channel Financing loans and various other SME Loans so as to improve the sustainability of the SME business sector which has been severely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank has collaborated with Nepal Mobile Distributors Association to provide Channel Financing Loan along with various other SME loan facilities to its registered members.  Under this strategic partnership, the associated mobile distributors across the nation shall benefit through the Channel Financing facility, which connects the network of retailers of registered mobile distributors with the bank and provides assured working capital limit as Channel Financing loan with attractive pricing & collateral comfort. The major attraction of the Channel Financing loan is that it allows distributors to receive the full value of bills issued to the retailers through banking financing. Furthermore, the registered members can avail various other SME loan facilities to meet their financing requirements for sustainable growth. Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Nabil Bank’s Head - SME & MF Division and Mr. Dinesh Chulyadyo, President of NMDA, Kathmandu have signed the Memorandum of Understanding on 14 March 2022 at Nabil SME & MF Hub, Tripureshwor in the presence of Mr. Manoj Kumar Yadav, Nabil Bank’s Manager - Microfinance Division and Mr. Gri Nath Tripathi, NMDA’s General Secretary. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Basnet (Danil) stated ‘Nabil Bank is focused towards providing financial services to the general public and businesses through credit creation and facilitating them as required so as to ensure sustainable growth of this segment. Through this partnership with NMDA, the Bank aims to support its members in managing their working capital and cash flow shortages through Channel Financing loans and various other SME Loans so as to improve the sustainability of the SME business sector which has been severely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank has collaborated with Nepal Mobile Distributors Association to provide Channel Financing Loan along with various other SME loan facilities to its registered members.  Under this strategic partnership, the associated mobile distributors across the nation shall benefit through the Channel Financing facility, which connects the network of retailers of registered mobile distributors with the bank and provides assured working capital limit as Channel Financing loan with attractive pricing & collateral comfort. The major attraction of the Channel Financing loan is that it allows distributors to receive the full value of bills issued to the retailers through banking financing. Furthermore, the registered members can avail various other SME loan facilities to meet their financing requirements for sustainable growth. Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Nabil Bank’s Head - SME & MF Division and Mr. Dinesh Chulyadyo, President of NMDA, Kathmandu have signed the Memorandum of Understanding on 14 March 2022 at Nabil SME & MF Hub, Tripureshwor in the presence of Mr. Manoj Kumar Yadav, Nabil Bank’s Manager - Microfinance Division and Mr. Gri Nath Tripathi, NMDA’s General Secretary. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Basnet (Danil) stated ‘Nabil Bank is focused towards providing financial services to the general public and businesses through credit creation and facilitating them as required so as to ensure sustainable growth of this segment. Through this partnership with NMDA, the Bank aims to support its members in managing their working capital and cash flow shortages through Channel Financing loans and various other SME Loans so as to improve the sustainability of the SME business sector which has been severely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. "
2022-03-14,"Deposit Rose Minimally in Fourth Week of Falgun, Lending Down Rs. 1B",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/deposit-rose-minimally-in-fourth-week-of-falgun-lending-down-rs-1b-2022-03-14,"The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Falgun 27, i.e. the end of the fourth week of Falgun, 2078. The total deposit figure has risen by Rs. 2 billion in the fourth week. The deposit figure had seen a higher than usual growth in the third week of Falgun compared to the previous weeks. The total deposit figure is at Rs. 4,326 billion. Rs. 4,230 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 95 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone down by Rs. 1 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,169 billion. Rs. 4,117 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 52 billion is in foreign currency. The CD ratio of the week is 91.08%. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Falgun 27, i.e. the end of the fourth week of Falgun, 2078. The total deposit figure has risen by Rs. 2 billion in the fourth week. The deposit figure had seen a higher than usual growth in the third week of Falgun compared to the previous weeks. The total deposit figure is at Rs. 4,326 billion. Rs. 4,230 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 95 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone down by Rs. 1 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,169 billion. Rs. 4,117 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 52 billion is in foreign currency. The CD ratio of the week is 91.08%. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Falgun 27, i.e. the end of the fourth week of Falgun, 2078. The total deposit figure has risen by Rs. 2 billion in the fourth week. The deposit figure had seen a higher than usual growth in the third week of Falgun compared to the previous weeks. The total deposit figure is at Rs. 4,326 billion. Rs. 4,230 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 95 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone down by Rs. 1 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,169 billion. Rs. 4,117 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 52 billion is in foreign currency. The CD ratio of the week is 91.08%. "
2022-03-14,"Commercial Banks Forwarded Rs. 11.84 Arba Loan in Magh, Most of it Went to Wholesale and Retail",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-forwarded-rs-1184-arba-loan-in-magh-most-of-it-went-to-wholesale-and-retail-2022-03-14,"The central bank has published the data regarding loans and advances disbursed by commercial banks till the first seven months of the current fiscal year 2078/79. According to Nepal Rastra Bank's report, commercial banks have deployed Rs. 41.55 Kharba on different sectors till Magh end FY 78/79. This figure was Rs. 41.43 Kharba till Poush. Commercial banks have disbursed loans worth only Rs. 11.84 Arba in the month of Magh due to the ongoing liquidity shortage in the economy. It is apparent that commercial banks have extended the majority of lending towards the Wholesaler and Retailers sector, i.e. Rs. 8.69 Kharba by the end of Magh. The maximum concentration of credit is under Wholesaler and Retailers, Consumption Loans, and Agriculture, Forestry & Beverage related production sectors: 21.30%, 17.94%, and 17.79% respectively.      The central bank has published the data regarding loans and advances disbursed by commercial banks till the first seven months of the current fiscal year 2078/79. According to Nepal Rastra Bank's report, commercial banks have deployed Rs. 41.55 Kharba on different sectors till Magh end FY 78/79. This figure was Rs. 41.43 Kharba till Poush. Commercial banks have disbursed loans worth only Rs. 11.84 Arba in the month of Magh due to the ongoing liquidity shortage in the economy. It is apparent that commercial banks have extended the majority of lending towards the Wholesaler and Retailers sector, i.e. Rs. 8.69 Kharba by the end of Magh. The maximum concentration of credit is under Wholesaler and Retailers, Consumption Loans, and Agriculture, Forestry & Beverage related production sectors: 21.30%, 17.94%, and 17.79% respectively.      The central bank has published the data regarding loans and advances disbursed by commercial banks till the first seven months of the current fiscal year 2078/79. According to Nepal Rastra Bank's report, commercial banks have deployed Rs. 41.55 Kharba on different sectors till Magh end FY 78/79. This figure was Rs. 41.43 Kharba till Poush. Commercial banks have disbursed loans worth only Rs. 11.84 Arba in the month of Magh due to the ongoing liquidity shortage in the economy. It is apparent that commercial banks have extended the majority of lending towards the Wholesaler and Retailers sector, i.e. Rs. 8.69 Kharba by the end of Magh. The maximum concentration of credit is under Wholesaler and Retailers, Consumption Loans, and Agriculture, Forestry & Beverage related production sectors: 21.30%, 17.94%, and 17.79% respectively.      "
2022-03-14,"Commercial Banks Profit Rs. 40.24 Arba in First Seven Months of FY, 3 Development Banks and 2 Finance Companies in Loss",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/profitability-2022-03-13,"Nepal Rastra Bank has unveiled the recent statistics covering the net profit of commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies for up to Magh of the current fiscal year 2078/79. Data shows that commercial banks all together have realized a total net profit of Rs. 40 Arba and 24 crores. Out of the 27 commercial banks, Global IME Bank stands at the top position with a net profit of Rs. 3 Arba and 3 crores. Likewise, NIC Asia Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 2 Arba and 85 crores. Meanwhile, Nabil Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 2 Arba and 62 crores. On the contrary, Civil Bank has the least net profit of Rs. 61 crores. Similarly, in the first seven months of the current fiscal year 2078/79, development banks have succeeded to make a total net profit of Rs. 3 Arba and 88 crores. Among the 17 development banks, 3 have reported net losses in the period. Muktinath Bikas Bank has realized an impressive net profit of Rs. 69.78 crores, the highest in the industry. Likewise, Garima Bikas Bank stands in the second position with a net profit of Rs. 56.65 crores. Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank, with a net profit of Rs. 52.83 crores, stands in the third position. On the opposite, data of NRB shows that Karnali, Narayani, and Saptakoshi Development Bank reported net losses during the period. Finance companies have made a net profit of Rs. 77.64 crores. Out of the 17 companies, two finance companies have reported a net loss in the first seven months, while the rest 15 are in a profit. Best Finance Company comes first on the list with a net profit of Rs. 13.04 crores. Likewise, ICFC Finance and Goodwill Finance stand in the second and third positions with a net profit of Rs. 10.17 crores and Rs. 8.61 crores respectively. Samriddhi Finance and Capital Merchant finance have reported net losses of Rs. 19.16 lakhs and Rs. 4.48 lakhs respectively. Nepal Rastra Bank has unveiled the recent statistics covering the net profit of commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies for up to Magh of the current fiscal year 2078/79. Data shows that commercial banks all together have realized a total net profit of Rs. 40 Arba and 24 crores. Out of the 27 commercial banks, Global IME Bank stands at the top position with a net profit of Rs. 3 Arba and 3 crores. Likewise, NIC Asia Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 2 Arba and 85 crores. Meanwhile, Nabil Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 2 Arba and 62 crores. On the contrary, Civil Bank has the least net profit of Rs. 61 crores. Similarly, in the first seven months of the current fiscal year 2078/79, development banks have succeeded to make a total net profit of Rs. 3 Arba and 88 crores. Among the 17 development banks, 3 have reported net losses in the period. Muktinath Bikas Bank has realized an impressive net profit of Rs. 69.78 crores, the highest in the industry. Likewise, Garima Bikas Bank stands in the second position with a net profit of Rs. 56.65 crores. Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank, with a net profit of Rs. 52.83 crores, stands in the third position. On the opposite, data of NRB shows that Karnali, Narayani, and Saptakoshi Development Bank reported net losses during the period. Finance companies have made a net profit of Rs. 77.64 crores. Out of the 17 companies, two finance companies have reported a net loss in the first seven months, while the rest 15 are in a profit. Best Finance Company comes first on the list with a net profit of Rs. 13.04 crores. Likewise, ICFC Finance and Goodwill Finance stand in the second and third positions with a net profit of Rs. 10.17 crores and Rs. 8.61 crores respectively. Samriddhi Finance and Capital Merchant finance have reported net losses of Rs. 19.16 lakhs and Rs. 4.48 lakhs respectively. Nepal Rastra Bank has unveiled the recent statistics covering the net profit of commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies for up to Magh of the current fiscal year 2078/79. Data shows that commercial banks all together have realized a total net profit of Rs. 40 Arba and 24 crores. Out of the 27 commercial banks, Global IME Bank stands at the top position with a net profit of Rs. 3 Arba and 3 crores. Likewise, NIC Asia Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 2 Arba and 85 crores. Meanwhile, Nabil Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 2 Arba and 62 crores. On the contrary, Civil Bank has the least net profit of Rs. 61 crores. Similarly, in the first seven months of the current fiscal year 2078/79, development banks have succeeded to make a total net profit of Rs. 3 Arba and 88 crores. Among the 17 development banks, 3 have reported net losses in the period. Muktinath Bikas Bank has realized an impressive net profit of Rs. 69.78 crores, the highest in the industry. Likewise, Garima Bikas Bank stands in the second position with a net profit of Rs. 56.65 crores. Mahalaxmi Bikas Bank, with a net profit of Rs. 52.83 crores, stands in the third position. On the opposite, data of NRB shows that Karnali, Narayani, and Saptakoshi Development Bank reported net losses during the period. Finance companies have made a net profit of Rs. 77.64 crores. Out of the 17 companies, two finance companies have reported a net loss in the first seven months, while the rest 15 are in a profit. Best Finance Company comes first on the list with a net profit of Rs. 13.04 crores. Likewise, ICFC Finance and Goodwill Finance stand in the second and third positions with a net profit of Rs. 10.17 crores and Rs. 8.61 crores respectively. Samriddhi Finance and Capital Merchant finance have reported net losses of Rs. 19.16 lakhs and Rs. 4.48 lakhs respectively. "
2022-03-14,"Banks Keep Interest Rates Unchanged for Chaitra, Finance Companies Raise Theirs",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/banks-keep-interest-rates-unchanged-for-chaitra-finance-companies-raise-theirs-2022-03-14,"Commercial Banks and Development Banks have kept interest rates unchanged for the month of Chaitra while Finance Companies have increased their rates. Commercial Banks had raised their interest rates for the month of Falgun after keeping their interest rate profile unchanged in Magh. Most commercial banks provided a 6.03% interest rate p.a. for depositors on savings in Falgun. Meanwhile, individuals got a maximum interest payment of 11.03% p.a. on fixed deposits. On the other hand, institutions got a 10.03% interest payment p.a. on fixed deposits. Development Banks had also raised the interest rates on deposits in Falgun compared to the previous months. Regional level development banks had increased the interest rates on fixed deposits to 11.65% and national level development banks to 11.55%. This was the rate for individual depositors. The rate for institutional depositors was less by one percentage point. Nonetheless, Sindhu Bikas Bank had provided 11.81% on fixed deposits for individuals and 10.81% for institutions. It seems that these rates haven't been altered for Chaitra. Finance Companies had also raised the interest rates on deposits in Falgun. The highest interest rate for individuals on fixed deposits was 11.71%. This rate was 10.71% for institutional depositors. For the month of Chaitra, however, finance companies have raised the maximum interest on fixed deposits to 12.25% for individuals. Nonetheless, most finance companies have 12.15% as the highest rate. Meanwhile, the highest rate on fixed deposits for institutions is 11.25%. Commercial Banks and Development Banks have kept interest rates unchanged for the month of Chaitra while Finance Companies have increased their rates. Commercial Banks had raised their interest rates for the month of Falgun after keeping their interest rate profile unchanged in Magh. Most commercial banks provided a 6.03% interest rate p.a. for depositors on savings in Falgun. Meanwhile, individuals got a maximum interest payment of 11.03% p.a. on fixed deposits. On the other hand, institutions got a 10.03% interest payment p.a. on fixed deposits. Development Banks had also raised the interest rates on deposits in Falgun compared to the previous months. Regional level development banks had increased the interest rates on fixed deposits to 11.65% and national level development banks to 11.55%. This was the rate for individual depositors. The rate for institutional depositors was less by one percentage point. Nonetheless, Sindhu Bikas Bank had provided 11.81% on fixed deposits for individuals and 10.81% for institutions. It seems that these rates haven't been altered for Chaitra. Finance Companies had also raised the interest rates on deposits in Falgun. The highest interest rate for individuals on fixed deposits was 11.71%. This rate was 10.71% for institutional depositors. For the month of Chaitra, however, finance companies have raised the maximum interest on fixed deposits to 12.25% for individuals. Nonetheless, most finance companies have 12.15% as the highest rate. Meanwhile, the highest rate on fixed deposits for institutions is 11.25%. Commercial Banks and Development Banks have kept interest rates unchanged for the month of Chaitra while Finance Companies have increased their rates. Commercial Banks had raised their interest rates for the month of Falgun after keeping their interest rate profile unchanged in Magh. Most commercial banks provided a 6.03% interest rate p.a. for depositors on savings in Falgun. Meanwhile, individuals got a maximum interest payment of 11.03% p.a. on fixed deposits. On the other hand, institutions got a 10.03% interest payment p.a. on fixed deposits. Development Banks had also raised the interest rates on deposits in Falgun compared to the previous months. Regional level development banks had increased the interest rates on fixed deposits to 11.65% and national level development banks to 11.55%. This was the rate for individual depositors. The rate for institutional depositors was less by one percentage point. Nonetheless, Sindhu Bikas Bank had provided 11.81% on fixed deposits for individuals and 10.81% for institutions. It seems that these rates haven't been altered for Chaitra. Finance Companies had also raised the interest rates on deposits in Falgun. The highest interest rate for individuals on fixed deposits was 11.71%. This rate was 10.71% for institutional depositors. For the month of Chaitra, however, finance companies have raised the maximum interest on fixed deposits to 12.25% for individuals. Nonetheless, most finance companies have 12.15% as the highest rate. Meanwhile, the highest rate on fixed deposits for institutions is 11.25%. "
2022-03-14,Nabil Bank inaugurates 4 new branches on single day; banking coverage increasing massively with 141 branches in service,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inaugurates-4-new-branches-on-single-day-banking-coverage-increasing-massively-with-141-branches-in-service-2022-03-14,"Nabil Bank Limited has inaugurated 4 new branches at Jarankhu, Shankhamul, Thaiba, and Gongabu Jalpa on the same day.  The four new branches were simultaneously inaugurated in the presence of the bank’s board members, senior officials, and local residents. Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Chairman, and Mr. Rameshwor Bohara, Mayor of Tarkeshwor Municipality jointly inaugurated Jarankhu Branch. Similarly, Mr. Malay Mukherjee, Nabil Bank’s Director, and Ms. Rohini Shrestha, Officiating Chairperson of Shankhamul ward jointly inaugurated Shankhamul Branch. Ms. Asha Rana Adhikary, Nabil Bank’s Director, and Mr. Gajendra Maharjan, Mayor of Godawari Municipality jointly inaugurated Thaiba Branch. Lastly, Mr. Udaya Krishna Upadhyay, Nabil Bank’s Director, and Mr. Prakash Adhikari, Mayor of Tokha Municipality jointly inaugurated Gongabu Jalpa Branch. The new branches will be providing full-fledged banking services to the customers. Being one of the leading banks of the nation, Nabil Bank, in its continuous effort to cater banking needs of large and widespread sections of the society, has been expanding its network in various regions of the country. With the formal inauguration of 4 new branches and soft opening of a few other branches, Nabil bank is providing the services through a wide domestic network of 141 branches, an ATM network of 187 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe and has assured to be the “1st Choice provider of complete financial solutions”. Nabil Bank Limited has inaugurated 4 new branches at Jarankhu, Shankhamul, Thaiba, and Gongabu Jalpa on the same day.  The four new branches were simultaneously inaugurated in the presence of the bank’s board members, senior officials, and local residents. Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Chairman, and Mr. Rameshwor Bohara, Mayor of Tarkeshwor Municipality jointly inaugurated Jarankhu Branch. Similarly, Mr. Malay Mukherjee, Nabil Bank’s Director, and Ms. Rohini Shrestha, Officiating Chairperson of Shankhamul ward jointly inaugurated Shankhamul Branch. Ms. Asha Rana Adhikary, Nabil Bank’s Director, and Mr. Gajendra Maharjan, Mayor of Godawari Municipality jointly inaugurated Thaiba Branch. Lastly, Mr. Udaya Krishna Upadhyay, Nabil Bank’s Director, and Mr. Prakash Adhikari, Mayor of Tokha Municipality jointly inaugurated Gongabu Jalpa Branch. The new branches will be providing full-fledged banking services to the customers. Being one of the leading banks of the nation, Nabil Bank, in its continuous effort to cater banking needs of large and widespread sections of the society, has been expanding its network in various regions of the country. With the formal inauguration of 4 new branches and soft opening of a few other branches, Nabil bank is providing the services through a wide domestic network of 141 branches, an ATM network of 187 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe and has assured to be the “1st Choice provider of complete financial solutions”. Nabil Bank Limited has inaugurated 4 new branches at Jarankhu, Shankhamul, Thaiba, and Gongabu Jalpa on the same day.  The four new branches were simultaneously inaugurated in the presence of the bank’s board members, senior officials, and local residents. Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Nabil Bank’s Chairman, and Mr. Rameshwor Bohara, Mayor of Tarkeshwor Municipality jointly inaugurated Jarankhu Branch. Similarly, Mr. Malay Mukherjee, Nabil Bank’s Director, and Ms. Rohini Shrestha, Officiating Chairperson of Shankhamul ward jointly inaugurated Shankhamul Branch. Ms. Asha Rana Adhikary, Nabil Bank’s Director, and Mr. Gajendra Maharjan, Mayor of Godawari Municipality jointly inaugurated Thaiba Branch. Lastly, Mr. Udaya Krishna Upadhyay, Nabil Bank’s Director, and Mr. Prakash Adhikari, Mayor of Tokha Municipality jointly inaugurated Gongabu Jalpa Branch. The new branches will be providing full-fledged banking services to the customers. Being one of the leading banks of the nation, Nabil Bank, in its continuous effort to cater banking needs of large and widespread sections of the society, has been expanding its network in various regions of the country. With the formal inauguration of 4 new branches and soft opening of a few other branches, Nabil bank is providing the services through a wide domestic network of 141 branches, an ATM network of 187 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe and has assured to be the “1st Choice provider of complete financial solutions”. "
2022-03-14,Nepal Rastra Bank provides LOI to Nabil Bank for acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank; revamped bank to take surge in all major indicators,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nepal-rastra-bank-provides-loi-to-nabil-bank-for-acquisition-of-nepal-bangladesh-bank-revamped-bank-to-take-surge-in-all-major-indicators-2022-03-14,"Nepal Rastra Bank has provided a Letter of Intent (LOI) to Nabil Bank for the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) have inked a preliminary agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43. The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078.  After the acquisition, Nabil Bank will have a paid-up value of Rs 23 arba, core capital of Rs 44 arba, loan disbursement of Rs 3.01 kharba, and total deposits of Rs 3.18 kharba, 241 branches, 292 ATM terminals, and 16 lakh plus customers, making it one of the leading banks in the nation, as per the media statement.   Nepal Rastra Bank has provided a Letter of Intent (LOI) to Nabil Bank for the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) have inked a preliminary agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43. The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078.  After the acquisition, Nabil Bank will have a paid-up value of Rs 23 arba, core capital of Rs 44 arba, loan disbursement of Rs 3.01 kharba, and total deposits of Rs 3.18 kharba, 241 branches, 292 ATM terminals, and 16 lakh plus customers, making it one of the leading banks in the nation, as per the media statement.   Nepal Rastra Bank has provided a Letter of Intent (LOI) to Nabil Bank for the acquisition of Nepal Bangladesh Bank. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) have inked a preliminary agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43. The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078.  After the acquisition, Nabil Bank will have a paid-up value of Rs 23 arba, core capital of Rs 44 arba, loan disbursement of Rs 3.01 kharba, and total deposits of Rs 3.18 kharba, 241 branches, 292 ATM terminals, and 16 lakh plus customers, making it one of the leading banks in the nation, as per the media statement.   "
2022-03-13,Nabil Bank Conducts Capacity Enhancement Programs for its SME Loan Customers of Province 1,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-conducts-capacity-enhancement-programs-for-its-sme-loan-customers-of-province-1-2022-03-13,"Nabil Bank has conducted a capacity enhancement program for its existing SME Loan customers of Province 1 today. This program is a fairly new initiative in the Nepalese Banking industry where the bank aims to support Made in Nepal products by enhancing the capacity and entrepreneurial skills of its existing SME loan customers through a formal training program. Mr. Suman Shakya, a well-known personality in the field of Entrepreneurial Development was invited to facilitate the training program.  Conducted at Itahari, the program had the participation of more than 40 SME loan customers. According to the participants, this program provided a good opportunity for capacity enhancement and knowledge sharing among the participants. Speaking about the value-added services provided to the banks’ customers through the training program, Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Nabil Bank’s Head - SME & Microfinance Division mentioned that Nabil Bank has initiated such program with the purpose of capacity enhancement & development of entrepreneurial mindset of our SME Loan customers while strengthening the long-standing relationship between the bank and the customers. The Bank plans to give continuation to this initiative in the upcoming days. Furthermore, Mr. Basnet (Danil) stated ‘Nabil believes in leading by example of Banking Beyond Profit through such value-added services for its customer, which is also a part of Sustainable Development Goals. Nabil Bank has conducted a capacity enhancement program for its existing SME Loan customers of Province 1 today. This program is a fairly new initiative in the Nepalese Banking industry where the bank aims to support Made in Nepal products by enhancing the capacity and entrepreneurial skills of its existing SME loan customers through a formal training program. Mr. Suman Shakya, a well-known personality in the field of Entrepreneurial Development was invited to facilitate the training program.  Conducted at Itahari, the program had the participation of more than 40 SME loan customers. According to the participants, this program provided a good opportunity for capacity enhancement and knowledge sharing among the participants. Speaking about the value-added services provided to the banks’ customers through the training program, Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Nabil Bank’s Head - SME & Microfinance Division mentioned that Nabil Bank has initiated such program with the purpose of capacity enhancement & development of entrepreneurial mindset of our SME Loan customers while strengthening the long-standing relationship between the bank and the customers. The Bank plans to give continuation to this initiative in the upcoming days. Furthermore, Mr. Basnet (Danil) stated ‘Nabil believes in leading by example of Banking Beyond Profit through such value-added services for its customer, which is also a part of Sustainable Development Goals. Nabil Bank has conducted a capacity enhancement program for its existing SME Loan customers of Province 1 today. This program is a fairly new initiative in the Nepalese Banking industry where the bank aims to support Made in Nepal products by enhancing the capacity and entrepreneurial skills of its existing SME loan customers through a formal training program. Mr. Suman Shakya, a well-known personality in the field of Entrepreneurial Development was invited to facilitate the training program.  Conducted at Itahari, the program had the participation of more than 40 SME loan customers. According to the participants, this program provided a good opportunity for capacity enhancement and knowledge sharing among the participants. Speaking about the value-added services provided to the banks’ customers through the training program, Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Nabil Bank’s Head - SME & Microfinance Division mentioned that Nabil Bank has initiated such program with the purpose of capacity enhancement & development of entrepreneurial mindset of our SME Loan customers while strengthening the long-standing relationship between the bank and the customers. The Bank plans to give continuation to this initiative in the upcoming days. Furthermore, Mr. Basnet (Danil) stated ‘Nabil believes in leading by example of Banking Beyond Profit through such value-added services for its customer, which is also a part of Sustainable Development Goals. "
2022-03-09,"Weekly Deposit Figure Sees Noticeable Increment After Long, Lending Also Sees Modest Gain",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/weekly-deposit-figure-sees-noticeable-increment-after-long-lending-also-sees-modest-gain-2022-03-09,"The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the third week of Falgun, 2078. The total deposit figure has seen a higher than usual growth in the third week of Falgun compared to the previous weeks. The total deposit figure is at Rs. 4,324 billion, up by Rs. 11 billion compared to the second week's figure. Rs. 4,231 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 93 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone up by Rs. 5 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,170 billion. Rs. 4,113 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 57 billion is in foreign currency. The CD ratio of the week is 90.76%. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the third week of Falgun, 2078. The total deposit figure has seen a higher than usual growth in the third week of Falgun compared to the previous weeks. The total deposit figure is at Rs. 4,324 billion, up by Rs. 11 billion compared to the second week's figure. Rs. 4,231 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 93 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone up by Rs. 5 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,170 billion. Rs. 4,113 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 57 billion is in foreign currency. The CD ratio of the week is 90.76%. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the third week of Falgun, 2078. The total deposit figure has seen a higher than usual growth in the third week of Falgun compared to the previous weeks. The total deposit figure is at Rs. 4,324 billion, up by Rs. 11 billion compared to the second week's figure. Rs. 4,231 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 93 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has also gone up by Rs. 5 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,170 billion. Rs. 4,113 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 57 billion is in foreign currency. The CD ratio of the week is 90.76%. "
2022-03-08,Nabil Bank launches ‘Nabil FD Card’ on the occasion of International Women’s Day,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-nabil-fd-card-on-the-occasion-of-international-womens-day-2022-03-08,"Nabil Bank has launched ‘Nabil FD Card’ (Nabil Fixed Deposit Card), a credit card product that provides credit card facilities to its fixed deposit customers. Nabil FD Card has been launched to provide financial planning services to homemakers, retired individuals, and university students, who usually possess financial discipline but do not have a regular stream of income.  Moreover, on the occasion of International Women’s Day, Nabil Bank will be providing Nabil FD Card to customers for free throughout the month of March 2022. The card can be used for POS transactions or ATM withdrawals as per the convenience of the user. Likewise, the card can be used to purchase goods such as Bicycles, Jewelry, Mobile phones, and Laptops in Equal Monthly Installments. In addition, Nabil Bank also provides an option to FD holders to issue multiple credit cards (Nabil FD Cards) for their immediate family members. The credit card limit per card is 80% of the FD amount or NPR 200,000. This is a unique blend of fixed deposit and credit card products which shall ensure that the customers can enjoy their desired product all while earning a lucrative interest rate of 11.03% on their Fixed Deposit. We are confident that this product will enable customers in making better financial decisions. Nabil Bank has launched ‘Nabil FD Card’ (Nabil Fixed Deposit Card), a credit card product that provides credit card facilities to its fixed deposit customers. Nabil FD Card has been launched to provide financial planning services to homemakers, retired individuals, and university students, who usually possess financial discipline but do not have a regular stream of income.  Moreover, on the occasion of International Women’s Day, Nabil Bank will be providing Nabil FD Card to customers for free throughout the month of March 2022. The card can be used for POS transactions or ATM withdrawals as per the convenience of the user. Likewise, the card can be used to purchase goods such as Bicycles, Jewelry, Mobile phones, and Laptops in Equal Monthly Installments. In addition, Nabil Bank also provides an option to FD holders to issue multiple credit cards (Nabil FD Cards) for their immediate family members. The credit card limit per card is 80% of the FD amount or NPR 200,000. This is a unique blend of fixed deposit and credit card products which shall ensure that the customers can enjoy their desired product all while earning a lucrative interest rate of 11.03% on their Fixed Deposit. We are confident that this product will enable customers in making better financial decisions. Nabil Bank has launched ‘Nabil FD Card’ (Nabil Fixed Deposit Card), a credit card product that provides credit card facilities to its fixed deposit customers. Nabil FD Card has been launched to provide financial planning services to homemakers, retired individuals, and university students, who usually possess financial discipline but do not have a regular stream of income.  Moreover, on the occasion of International Women’s Day, Nabil Bank will be providing Nabil FD Card to customers for free throughout the month of March 2022. The card can be used for POS transactions or ATM withdrawals as per the convenience of the user. Likewise, the card can be used to purchase goods such as Bicycles, Jewelry, Mobile phones, and Laptops in Equal Monthly Installments. In addition, Nabil Bank also provides an option to FD holders to issue multiple credit cards (Nabil FD Cards) for their immediate family members. The credit card limit per card is 80% of the FD amount or NPR 200,000. This is a unique blend of fixed deposit and credit card products which shall ensure that the customers can enjoy their desired product all while earning a lucrative interest rate of 11.03% on their Fixed Deposit. We are confident that this product will enable customers in making better financial decisions. "
2022-03-02,Nabil Bank partners with 3 palikas of Tansen; to extend line of credit to local entrepreneurs for development of local economy,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-partners-with-3-palikas-of-tansen-to-extend-line-of-credit-to-local-entrepreneurs-for-development-of-local-economy-2022-03-01,"Nabil Bank under the Heifer Project Nepal has inked a collaboration agreement with Tansen Nagarpalika, Ribdikot gaupalika, and Tinau nagarpalika of Palpa district.  The MoU was signed between DY. CEO of the bank Mr. Sujit kumar Shakya, Tansen nagarpalika head Mr. Ashok Kumar Shahi, Ribdikot gaupalika head Mr. Narayan Bahadur G.C., and head of Tinau gaupalika Mr. Om Bahadur Gharti Magar amid a program. Under this scheme, the local entrepreneurs will procure credit facilities from the bank for the locally run agro-based and other business enterprises, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank under the Heifer Project Nepal has inked a collaboration agreement with Tansen Nagarpalika, Ribdikot gaupalika, and Tinau nagarpalika of Palpa district.  The MoU was signed between DY. CEO of the bank Mr. Sujit kumar Shakya, Tansen nagarpalika head Mr. Ashok Kumar Shahi, Ribdikot gaupalika head Mr. Narayan Bahadur G.C., and head of Tinau gaupalika Mr. Om Bahadur Gharti Magar amid a program. Under this scheme, the local entrepreneurs will procure credit facilities from the bank for the locally run agro-based and other business enterprises, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank under the Heifer Project Nepal has inked a collaboration agreement with Tansen Nagarpalika, Ribdikot gaupalika, and Tinau nagarpalika of Palpa district.  The MoU was signed between DY. CEO of the bank Mr. Sujit kumar Shakya, Tansen nagarpalika head Mr. Ashok Kumar Shahi, Ribdikot gaupalika head Mr. Narayan Bahadur G.C., and head of Tinau gaupalika Mr. Om Bahadur Gharti Magar amid a program. Under this scheme, the local entrepreneurs will procure credit facilities from the bank for the locally run agro-based and other business enterprises, as per the media statement. "
2022-02-28,"Deposit Collection Rose Rs. 1B in Second Week of Falgun, Lending Up Rs. 6B",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/deposit-collection-rose-rs-1b-in-first-week-of-falgun-lending-up-rs-6b-2022-02-28,"The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the second week of Falgun, 2078. The total deposit remained fairly the same in the second week of Falgun compared to the first week, and the figure is at Rs. 4,313 billion, up by Rs. 1 billion. Rs. 4,219 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 94 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 6 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,165 billion. Rs. 4,101 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 64 billion is in foreign currency. The average CD of the banks for the period is 90.80%. Related: Amidst Liquidity Crunch, Commercial Banks Are Forwarding Loans to These Sectors The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the second week of Falgun, 2078. The total deposit remained fairly the same in the second week of Falgun compared to the first week, and the figure is at Rs. 4,313 billion, up by Rs. 1 billion. Rs. 4,219 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 94 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 6 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,165 billion. Rs. 4,101 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 64 billion is in foreign currency. The average CD of the banks for the period is 90.80%. Related: Amidst Liquidity Crunch, Commercial Banks Are Forwarding Loans to These Sectors The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the second week of Falgun, 2078. The total deposit remained fairly the same in the second week of Falgun compared to the first week, and the figure is at Rs. 4,313 billion, up by Rs. 1 billion. Rs. 4,219 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 94 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 6 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,165 billion. Rs. 4,101 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 64 billion is in foreign currency. The average CD of the banks for the period is 90.80%. Related: Amidst Liquidity Crunch, Commercial Banks Are Forwarding Loans to These Sectors "
2022-02-24,"Central Bank Imposes Risk Weight on Share Loan and Various Other Loans, Regulation Tightened for Promoters to Buy Promoter Shares of Other BFIs",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/central-bank-imposes-risk-weight-on-share-loan-and-various-other-loans-regulation-tightened-for-promoters-to-buy-promoter-shares-of-other-bfis-2022-02-24,"Nepal Rastra Bank has increased the risk weight of various types of loans forwarded by banks and financial institutions, including on share loans. Effective from Ashar, 2079, personal Overdraft Loans shall attract a risk weight of 150%. Meanwhile, Personal Hire purchase/ Personal Auto loans shall attract a risk weight of 150%. There was no such requirement before. Furthermore, Real Estate loans for land acquisition and development and lending against shares shall also attract a risk weight of 150%. Previously, lending against securities (bonds and shares) attracted a risk weight of 100%. Trust Receipt Loans for Trading Firms will now attract a risk weight of 120%. The central bank has also tightened the requirement for promoters of banks and financial institutions to buy promoter shares of other BFIs. According to the added requirement, promoters who own 1% or more of promoter shareholding in a BFI must receive the central bank's approval to buy promoter shares of any other BFI. Nepal Rastra Bank has increased the risk weight of various types of loans forwarded by banks and financial institutions, including on share loans. Effective from Ashar, 2079, personal Overdraft Loans shall attract a risk weight of 150%. Meanwhile, Personal Hire purchase/ Personal Auto loans shall attract a risk weight of 150%. There was no such requirement before. Furthermore, Real Estate loans for land acquisition and development and lending against shares shall also attract a risk weight of 150%. Previously, lending against securities (bonds and shares) attracted a risk weight of 100%. Trust Receipt Loans for Trading Firms will now attract a risk weight of 120%. The central bank has also tightened the requirement for promoters of banks and financial institutions to buy promoter shares of other BFIs. According to the added requirement, promoters who own 1% or more of promoter shareholding in a BFI must receive the central bank's approval to buy promoter shares of any other BFI. Nepal Rastra Bank has increased the risk weight of various types of loans forwarded by banks and financial institutions, including on share loans. Effective from Ashar, 2079, personal Overdraft Loans shall attract a risk weight of 150%. Meanwhile, Personal Hire purchase/ Personal Auto loans shall attract a risk weight of 150%. There was no such requirement before. Furthermore, Real Estate loans for land acquisition and development and lending against shares shall also attract a risk weight of 150%. Previously, lending against securities (bonds and shares) attracted a risk weight of 100%. Trust Receipt Loans for Trading Firms will now attract a risk weight of 120%. The central bank has also tightened the requirement for promoters of banks and financial institutions to buy promoter shares of other BFIs. According to the added requirement, promoters who own 1% or more of promoter shareholding in a BFI must receive the central bank's approval to buy promoter shares of any other BFI. "
2022-02-21,"Deposit Collection Rose Rs. 1B in First Week of Falgun, Lending Up Rs. 4B",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/deposit-collection-rose-rs-1b-in-first-week-of-falgun-lending-up-rs-4b-2022-02-21,"The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the first week of Falgun, 2078. The total deposit remained fairly the same in the first week of Falgun compared to Magh's final week, and the figure is at Rs. 4,312 billion, up by Rs. 1 billion. Rs. 4,220 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 92 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 4 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,159 billion. Rs. 4,086 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 73 billion is in foreign currency. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the first week of Falgun, 2078. The total deposit remained fairly the same in the first week of Falgun compared to Magh's final week, and the figure is at Rs. 4,312 billion, up by Rs. 1 billion. Rs. 4,220 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 92 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 4 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,159 billion. Rs. 4,086 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 73 billion is in foreign currency. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of the first week of Falgun, 2078. The total deposit remained fairly the same in the first week of Falgun compared to Magh's final week, and the figure is at Rs. 4,312 billion, up by Rs. 1 billion. Rs. 4,220 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 92 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 4 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,159 billion. Rs. 4,086 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 73 billion is in foreign currency. "
2022-02-20,Nabil Bank to support Community HomeStay network; 2 institutions inks MoU to promote sustainable tourism and local economy,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-support-community-homestay-network-2-institutions-inks-mou-to-promote-sustainable-tourism-and-local-economy-2022-02-20,"Nabil Bank and Community Homestay Network have inked an agreement to promote sustainable local tourism, rural entrepreneurship, and financial empowerment.  The MoU was signed between DY. CEO of the bank Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya and chairman of Community Homestay Network Mr. Shiva Prasad Dhakal amid a program. Nabil Bank and Community Homestay Network have inked an agreement to promote sustainable local tourism, rural entrepreneurship, and financial empowerment.  The MoU was signed between DY. CEO of the bank Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya and chairman of Community Homestay Network Mr. Shiva Prasad Dhakal amid a program. Nabil Bank and Community Homestay Network have inked an agreement to promote sustainable local tourism, rural entrepreneurship, and financial empowerment.  The MoU was signed between DY. CEO of the bank Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya and chairman of Community Homestay Network Mr. Shiva Prasad Dhakal amid a program. "
2022-02-16,IFIC Bank Selling Entire Stake in Nepal Bangladesh Bank to Binod Chaudhary's Wife,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/ific-bank-selling-entire-stake-in-nepal-bangladesh-bank-to-binod-chaudharys-wife-2022-02-16,"The International Finance Investment and Commerce Bank Limited (IFIC Bank Limited) has decided to sell its entire ownership of Nepal Bangladesh Bank. The bank has published a notice unveiling that its entire stake will be sold to Sarika Chaudhary, wife of Binod Chaudhary, for Rs. 6,187,007,568. The decision is subject to the approval of Nepal Rastra Bank and other regulatory authorities. The Kathmandu District Court had previously ordered to stop the process of buying 41 percent shares of Nepal Bangladesh Bank owned by IFIC Bank for the time being. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited is a joint venture commercial bank between IFIC Bank limited and Nepali nationals. The commercial bank started its operation with effect from 06 June 1994 in Nepal with 50% equity from IFIC Bank Limited. According to IFIC Bank's official website, IFIC Bank, a banking company incorporated in the People's Republic of Bangladesh currently holds a 40.91% stake in Nepal Bangladesh Bank. The bank had commenced a process of negotiation to sell the entire stake of Nepal Bangladesh Bank. In the case filed by Motilal Dugar, a businessman who is also the chairman of Sunrise Bank, the court has ordered not to sell the shares for the time being. The court has also demanded that the opposition Nepal Bangladesh Bank submit a written reply within seven days. In the order issued by the district court, it is apparent that Motilal Dugar had already signed an agreement to purchase 3,68,27,426 shares of NBB at Rs. 157 per share. According to the court order, the agreement was acknowledged and accepted by the opposition Nepal Bangladesh Bank on March 31, 2021. However, the bank had then left the Dugar group in the dark for the last couple of months. It was later brought to the Dugar group's attention that the Chaudhary Group headed by Binod Chaudhary was in the process to buy the shares of NBB owned by IFIC. Chaudhary Group has a majority stake in Nabil Bank. Apparently, an agreement was reached to buy shares in the name of his wife Sarika. This had then led Dugar to file an application against the ongoing procedure. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) have inked a preliminary agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43. The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078. The MoU of the acquisition was signed by a director of Nabil Bank Mr. Udaya Krishna Upadhya and director of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Mr. Indra Bahadur Thapa amid a program. The new entity is expected to begin the joint transaction within five months after completing all the legal and regulatory formalities where the revamped institution will have core capital of Rs 43 Arba, paid-up value of Rs 22.5 Arba, loans of Rs 300 Arba, deposits of Rs 314 Arba, 235 branches, 16 lakh plus customers, making it one of the leading banks in the nation, as per the media statement. The International Finance Investment and Commerce Bank Limited (IFIC Bank Limited) has decided to sell its entire ownership of Nepal Bangladesh Bank. The bank has published a notice unveiling that its entire stake will be sold to Sarika Chaudhary, wife of Binod Chaudhary, for Rs. 6,187,007,568. The decision is subject to the approval of Nepal Rastra Bank and other regulatory authorities. The Kathmandu District Court had previously ordered to stop the process of buying 41 percent shares of Nepal Bangladesh Bank owned by IFIC Bank for the time being. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited is a joint venture commercial bank between IFIC Bank limited and Nepali nationals. The commercial bank started its operation with effect from 06 June 1994 in Nepal with 50% equity from IFIC Bank Limited. According to IFIC Bank's official website, IFIC Bank, a banking company incorporated in the People's Republic of Bangladesh currently holds a 40.91% stake in Nepal Bangladesh Bank. The bank had commenced a process of negotiation to sell the entire stake of Nepal Bangladesh Bank. In the case filed by Motilal Dugar, a businessman who is also the chairman of Sunrise Bank, the court has ordered not to sell the shares for the time being. The court has also demanded that the opposition Nepal Bangladesh Bank submit a written reply within seven days. In the order issued by the district court, it is apparent that Motilal Dugar had already signed an agreement to purchase 3,68,27,426 shares of NBB at Rs. 157 per share. According to the court order, the agreement was acknowledged and accepted by the opposition Nepal Bangladesh Bank on March 31, 2021. However, the bank had then left the Dugar group in the dark for the last couple of months. It was later brought to the Dugar group's attention that the Chaudhary Group headed by Binod Chaudhary was in the process to buy the shares of NBB owned by IFIC. Chaudhary Group has a majority stake in Nabil Bank. Apparently, an agreement was reached to buy shares in the name of his wife Sarika. This had then led Dugar to file an application against the ongoing procedure. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) have inked a preliminary agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43. The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078. The MoU of the acquisition was signed by a director of Nabil Bank Mr. Udaya Krishna Upadhya and director of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Mr. Indra Bahadur Thapa amid a program. The new entity is expected to begin the joint transaction within five months after completing all the legal and regulatory formalities where the revamped institution will have core capital of Rs 43 Arba, paid-up value of Rs 22.5 Arba, loans of Rs 300 Arba, deposits of Rs 314 Arba, 235 branches, 16 lakh plus customers, making it one of the leading banks in the nation, as per the media statement. The International Finance Investment and Commerce Bank Limited (IFIC Bank Limited) has decided to sell its entire ownership of Nepal Bangladesh Bank. The bank has published a notice unveiling that its entire stake will be sold to Sarika Chaudhary, wife of Binod Chaudhary, for Rs. 6,187,007,568. The decision is subject to the approval of Nepal Rastra Bank and other regulatory authorities. The Kathmandu District Court had previously ordered to stop the process of buying 41 percent shares of Nepal Bangladesh Bank owned by IFIC Bank for the time being. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited is a joint venture commercial bank between IFIC Bank limited and Nepali nationals. The commercial bank started its operation with effect from 06 June 1994 in Nepal with 50% equity from IFIC Bank Limited. According to IFIC Bank's official website, IFIC Bank, a banking company incorporated in the People's Republic of Bangladesh currently holds a 40.91% stake in Nepal Bangladesh Bank. The bank had commenced a process of negotiation to sell the entire stake of Nepal Bangladesh Bank. In the case filed by Motilal Dugar, a businessman who is also the chairman of Sunrise Bank, the court has ordered not to sell the shares for the time being. The court has also demanded that the opposition Nepal Bangladesh Bank submit a written reply within seven days. In the order issued by the district court, it is apparent that Motilal Dugar had already signed an agreement to purchase 3,68,27,426 shares of NBB at Rs. 157 per share. According to the court order, the agreement was acknowledged and accepted by the opposition Nepal Bangladesh Bank on March 31, 2021. However, the bank had then left the Dugar group in the dark for the last couple of months. It was later brought to the Dugar group's attention that the Chaudhary Group headed by Binod Chaudhary was in the process to buy the shares of NBB owned by IFIC. Chaudhary Group has a majority stake in Nabil Bank. Apparently, an agreement was reached to buy shares in the name of his wife Sarika. This had then led Dugar to file an application against the ongoing procedure. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) have inked a preliminary agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43. The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078. The MoU of the acquisition was signed by a director of Nabil Bank Mr. Udaya Krishna Upadhya and director of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Mr. Indra Bahadur Thapa amid a program. The new entity is expected to begin the joint transaction within five months after completing all the legal and regulatory formalities where the revamped institution will have core capital of Rs 43 Arba, paid-up value of Rs 22.5 Arba, loans of Rs 300 Arba, deposits of Rs 314 Arba, 235 branches, 16 lakh plus customers, making it one of the leading banks in the nation, as per the media statement. "
2022-02-16,"Deposit Collection Choked in Fourth Week of Magh, Lending Up Rs. 6B",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/deposit-collection-choked-in-fourth-week-of-magh-lending-up-rs-6b-2022-02-16,"The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Magh end, 2078. The total deposit remained the same in the fourth week of Magh, and the figure is at Rs. 4,311 billion. In the third week, this figure had gone up by Rs. 3 billion from the week before that. Rs. 4,217 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 94 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 6 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,155 billion. Rs. 4,073 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 82 billion is in foreign currency. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Magh end, 2078. The total deposit remained the same in the fourth week of Magh, and the figure is at Rs. 4,311 billion. In the third week, this figure had gone up by Rs. 3 billion from the week before that. Rs. 4,217 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 94 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 6 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,155 billion. Rs. 4,073 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 82 billion is in foreign currency. The report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Magh end, 2078. The total deposit remained the same in the fourth week of Magh, and the figure is at Rs. 4,311 billion. In the third week, this figure had gone up by Rs. 3 billion from the week before that. Rs. 4,217 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 94 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 6 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,155 billion. Rs. 4,073 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 82 billion is in foreign currency. "
2022-02-16,Nabil Bank ties up with Sowa Healthcare Center to provide privileged health care facilities to customers,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-ties-up-with-sowa-healthcare-center-to-provide-privileged-health-care-facilities-to-customers-2022-02-16,"Nabil Bank has entered into an agreement with Sowa Healthcare Center (Sowa) to provide privileged facilities to its Prepaid/Debit/Credit cardholders and staff while availing different health care packages from Sowa. This tie-up for discounted health care facilities has been initiated while keeping people’s health care needs in mind.  Sowa Healthcare is a new advanced polyclinic located in Ekantakuna, Lalitpur with advanced technologies and uncompromised services. The clinic provides easy access to medical and telemedicine services. During the ongoing COVID – 19 pandemic, Sowa Healthcare has been providing services like home sample collection, vaccination, online doctor consultation, medicine delivery, and uber health service (Pick and Drop). We are pleased to have collaborated with Sowa Healthcare to provide privileged health care services to our cardholders. We strongly believe this tie-up shall prove as a major value addition to the customers during this tough time of the COVID-19 pandemic. Nabil Bank has entered into an agreement with Sowa Healthcare Center (Sowa) to provide privileged facilities to its Prepaid/Debit/Credit cardholders and staff while availing different health care packages from Sowa. This tie-up for discounted health care facilities has been initiated while keeping people’s health care needs in mind.  Sowa Healthcare is a new advanced polyclinic located in Ekantakuna, Lalitpur with advanced technologies and uncompromised services. The clinic provides easy access to medical and telemedicine services. During the ongoing COVID – 19 pandemic, Sowa Healthcare has been providing services like home sample collection, vaccination, online doctor consultation, medicine delivery, and uber health service (Pick and Drop). We are pleased to have collaborated with Sowa Healthcare to provide privileged health care services to our cardholders. We strongly believe this tie-up shall prove as a major value addition to the customers during this tough time of the COVID-19 pandemic. Nabil Bank has entered into an agreement with Sowa Healthcare Center (Sowa) to provide privileged facilities to its Prepaid/Debit/Credit cardholders and staff while availing different health care packages from Sowa. This tie-up for discounted health care facilities has been initiated while keeping people’s health care needs in mind.  Sowa Healthcare is a new advanced polyclinic located in Ekantakuna, Lalitpur with advanced technologies and uncompromised services. The clinic provides easy access to medical and telemedicine services. During the ongoing COVID – 19 pandemic, Sowa Healthcare has been providing services like home sample collection, vaccination, online doctor consultation, medicine delivery, and uber health service (Pick and Drop). We are pleased to have collaborated with Sowa Healthcare to provide privileged health care services to our cardholders. We strongly believe this tie-up shall prove as a major value addition to the customers during this tough time of the COVID-19 pandemic. "
2022-02-13,Banks and Financial Institutions Raise Interest Rates for Falgun,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/banks-and-financial-institutions-raise-interest-rates-for-falgun-2022-02-13,"Banks and Financial Institutions have unveiled the interest rates profile for the month of Falgun. Nepal Rastra Bank had previously taken measures to limit a sudden hike in interest rate. The central bank believed this would minimize the impact on borrowers and businesses that would otherwise be hurt by the rise in interest payment expenses. However, the liquidity scenario worsened despite the central bank's measures. The national banking economy had very little liquidity, which strangled credit flow. As such, the central bank has now instructed banks to raise the interest rates in order to attract more deposits and ease up the liquidity crisis. Commercial Banks have raised their highest interest offering on deposits by one percentage point. Commercial banks had kept their interest rate profile unchanged in Magh. The maximum interest rate on fixed deposits provided by commercial banks was 10.05%, with Standard Chartered Bank as an exception. SCB had only offered 9.5% as its maximum interest rate on fixed deposits. In contrast, institutions were offered a maximum of 9.05% on fixed deposits. Banks had maintained a maximum rate of 10.05% already in the month of Mangsir and Poush. Meanwhile, development banks had kept 10.35% as the maximum interest rate on fixed deposits (individuals) for the month of Magh. In the month of Poush, the maximum rate was 10.25%. In the month of Magh, institutions were offered not more than 9.35% p.a. In the month of Poush, the maximum rate was 9.25% for institutions. In contrast, the interest rate on fixed deposits given by finance companies in Magh was capped at 10.65% for individuals. In the month of Magh, institutions were offered not more than 9.65% p.a. In the month of Poush, the maximum rate was 10.35% for individuals and 9.35% for institutions. Commercial Banks have raised their interest rates profile for the month of Falgun. Most commercial banks provide a 6.03% interest rate p.a. for depositors on savings. Meanwhile, individuals will get a maximum interest payment of 11.03% p.a. on fixed deposits. On the other hand, institutions will get a 10.03% interest payment p.a. on fixed deposits. Development Banks have also raised the interest rates on deposits. Regional level development banks have increased the interest rates on fixed deposits to 11.65% and national level development banks to 11.55%. This is the rate for individual depositors. The rate for institutional depositors is less by one percentage point. Nonetheless, Sindhu Bikas Bank provides 11.81% on fixed deposits for individuals and 10.81% for institutions. Finance Companies have also raised the interest rates on deposits. The highest interest rate for individuals on fixed deposits is 11.71%. This rate is 10.71% for institutional depositors. Banks and Financial Institutions have unveiled the interest rates profile for the month of Falgun. Nepal Rastra Bank had previously taken measures to limit a sudden hike in interest rate. The central bank believed this would minimize the impact on borrowers and businesses that would otherwise be hurt by the rise in interest payment expenses. However, the liquidity scenario worsened despite the central bank's measures. The national banking economy had very little liquidity, which strangled credit flow. As such, the central bank has now instructed banks to raise the interest rates in order to attract more deposits and ease up the liquidity crisis. Commercial Banks have raised their highest interest offering on deposits by one percentage point. Commercial banks had kept their interest rate profile unchanged in Magh. The maximum interest rate on fixed deposits provided by commercial banks was 10.05%, with Standard Chartered Bank as an exception. SCB had only offered 9.5% as its maximum interest rate on fixed deposits. In contrast, institutions were offered a maximum of 9.05% on fixed deposits. Banks had maintained a maximum rate of 10.05% already in the month of Mangsir and Poush. Meanwhile, development banks had kept 10.35% as the maximum interest rate on fixed deposits (individuals) for the month of Magh. In the month of Poush, the maximum rate was 10.25%. In the month of Magh, institutions were offered not more than 9.35% p.a. In the month of Poush, the maximum rate was 9.25% for institutions. In contrast, the interest rate on fixed deposits given by finance companies in Magh was capped at 10.65% for individuals. In the month of Magh, institutions were offered not more than 9.65% p.a. In the month of Poush, the maximum rate was 10.35% for individuals and 9.35% for institutions. Commercial Banks have raised their interest rates profile for the month of Falgun. Most commercial banks provide a 6.03% interest rate p.a. for depositors on savings. Meanwhile, individuals will get a maximum interest payment of 11.03% p.a. on fixed deposits. On the other hand, institutions will get a 10.03% interest payment p.a. on fixed deposits. Development Banks have also raised the interest rates on deposits. Regional level development banks have increased the interest rates on fixed deposits to 11.65% and national level development banks to 11.55%. This is the rate for individual depositors. The rate for institutional depositors is less by one percentage point. Nonetheless, Sindhu Bikas Bank provides 11.81% on fixed deposits for individuals and 10.81% for institutions. Finance Companies have also raised the interest rates on deposits. The highest interest rate for individuals on fixed deposits is 11.71%. This rate is 10.71% for institutional depositors. Banks and Financial Institutions have unveiled the interest rates profile for the month of Falgun. Nepal Rastra Bank had previously taken measures to limit a sudden hike in interest rate. The central bank believed this would minimize the impact on borrowers and businesses that would otherwise be hurt by the rise in interest payment expenses. However, the liquidity scenario worsened despite the central bank's measures. The national banking economy had very little liquidity, which strangled credit flow. As such, the central bank has now instructed banks to raise the interest rates in order to attract more deposits and ease up the liquidity crisis. Commercial Banks have raised their highest interest offering on deposits by one percentage point. Commercial banks had kept their interest rate profile unchanged in Magh. The maximum interest rate on fixed deposits provided by commercial banks was 10.05%, with Standard Chartered Bank as an exception. SCB had only offered 9.5% as its maximum interest rate on fixed deposits. In contrast, institutions were offered a maximum of 9.05% on fixed deposits. Banks had maintained a maximum rate of 10.05% already in the month of Mangsir and Poush. Meanwhile, development banks had kept 10.35% as the maximum interest rate on fixed deposits (individuals) for the month of Magh. In the month of Poush, the maximum rate was 10.25%. In the month of Magh, institutions were offered not more than 9.35% p.a. In the month of Poush, the maximum rate was 9.25% for institutions. In contrast, the interest rate on fixed deposits given by finance companies in Magh was capped at 10.65% for individuals. In the month of Magh, institutions were offered not more than 9.65% p.a. In the month of Poush, the maximum rate was 10.35% for individuals and 9.35% for institutions. Commercial Banks have raised their interest rates profile for the month of Falgun. Most commercial banks provide a 6.03% interest rate p.a. for depositors on savings. Meanwhile, individuals will get a maximum interest payment of 11.03% p.a. on fixed deposits. On the other hand, institutions will get a 10.03% interest payment p.a. on fixed deposits. Development Banks have also raised the interest rates on deposits. Regional level development banks have increased the interest rates on fixed deposits to 11.65% and national level development banks to 11.55%. This is the rate for individual depositors. The rate for institutional depositors is less by one percentage point. Nonetheless, Sindhu Bikas Bank provides 11.81% on fixed deposits for individuals and 10.81% for institutions. Finance Companies have also raised the interest rates on deposits. The highest interest rate for individuals on fixed deposits is 11.71%. This rate is 10.71% for institutional depositors. "
2022-02-07,Commercial Banks Report Higher Deposit Collection Than Lending in Third Week of Magh,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-report-higher-deposit-collection-than-lending-in-third-week-of-magh-2022-02-07,"The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Magh 21, 2078, i.e. the last working day of the third week. The CD ratio as of this date is 90.60%. The total deposit went up by Rs. 3 billion in the third week of Magh, and the figure is at Rs. 4,311 billion. In the second week, this figure had gone down by Rs. 3 billion from the week before that. Rs. 4,215 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 96 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 1 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,149 billion. Rs. 4,061 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 88 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Magh 21, 2078, i.e. the last working day of the third week. The CD ratio as of this date is 90.60%. The total deposit went up by Rs. 3 billion in the third week of Magh, and the figure is at Rs. 4,311 billion. In the second week, this figure had gone down by Rs. 3 billion from the week before that. Rs. 4,215 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 96 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 1 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,149 billion. Rs. 4,061 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 88 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Magh 21, 2078, i.e. the last working day of the third week. The CD ratio as of this date is 90.60%. The total deposit went up by Rs. 3 billion in the third week of Magh, and the figure is at Rs. 4,311 billion. In the second week, this figure had gone down by Rs. 3 billion from the week before that. Rs. 4,215 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 96 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 1 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,149 billion. Rs. 4,061 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 88 billion is in foreign currency. "
2022-02-04,"5,810 Shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta (SWBBL) Auctioned Away",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/5810-shares-of-swabalamban-laghubitta-swbbl-auctioned-away-2022-02-04,"The auctioned promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SWBBL) have been allotted. The allotment took place on Magh 20. Nabil Bank Limited auctioned the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SWBBL) from 5th Magh to 18th Magh, 2078. 1,62,498 units promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta were auctioned. Rs. 650 was the minimum bid rate for the auction. While the minimum bid quantity for shares was 1000 units, there was no upper limit for both shares. Although bidders could bid for the entirety of the issue, they were required to abide by Nepal Rastra Bank's rule to not exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Nabil Invest was appointed the auction manager. Bids were opened at the premises of the auction manager. Of the 1,62,498 shares auctioned, only 5,810 have been allotted to eligible bidders. Notice The auctioned promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SWBBL) have been allotted. The allotment took place on Magh 20. Nabil Bank Limited auctioned the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SWBBL) from 5th Magh to 18th Magh, 2078. 1,62,498 units promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta were auctioned. Rs. 650 was the minimum bid rate for the auction. While the minimum bid quantity for shares was 1000 units, there was no upper limit for both shares. Although bidders could bid for the entirety of the issue, they were required to abide by Nepal Rastra Bank's rule to not exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Nabil Invest was appointed the auction manager. Bids were opened at the premises of the auction manager. Of the 1,62,498 shares auctioned, only 5,810 have been allotted to eligible bidders. Notice The auctioned promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SWBBL) have been allotted. The allotment took place on Magh 20. Nabil Bank Limited auctioned the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SWBBL) from 5th Magh to 18th Magh, 2078. 1,62,498 units promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta were auctioned. Rs. 650 was the minimum bid rate for the auction. While the minimum bid quantity for shares was 1000 units, there was no upper limit for both shares. Although bidders could bid for the entirety of the issue, they were required to abide by Nepal Rastra Bank's rule to not exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Nabil Invest was appointed the auction manager. Bids were opened at the premises of the auction manager. Of the 1,62,498 shares auctioned, only 5,810 have been allotted to eligible bidders. Notice "
2022-02-03,"In Relation to Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism Efforts, Central Bank Tightens Surveillance on Monetary Transactions",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/in-relation-to-anti-money-laundering-and-anti-terrorism-efforts-central-bank-tightens-surveillance-on-monetary-transactions-2022-02-03,"Nepal Rastra Bank has instructed commercial banks to submit detailed information on all financial transactions greater than Rs. 7,00,000 carried out by the banks' customers. This applies to financial transactions that took place in the first six months of this fiscal year, i.e. from Shrawan 01 to Poush 30. The Money Laundering Surveillance Unit forwarded the instruction in relation to its anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism efforts. For each transaction worth Rs. 7 lakhs or higher, commercial banks are required to submit the details of the transactions. The report should include the name of the account holder, account number, exact date, and monetary amount of transaction, among other details. Commercial banks have also been given a sub-heading to mention any additional remark if necessary. Nepal Rastra Bank has instructed commercial banks to submit detailed information on all financial transactions greater than Rs. 7,00,000 carried out by the banks' customers. This applies to financial transactions that took place in the first six months of this fiscal year, i.e. from Shrawan 01 to Poush 30. The Money Laundering Surveillance Unit forwarded the instruction in relation to its anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism efforts. For each transaction worth Rs. 7 lakhs or higher, commercial banks are required to submit the details of the transactions. The report should include the name of the account holder, account number, exact date, and monetary amount of transaction, among other details. Commercial banks have also been given a sub-heading to mention any additional remark if necessary. Nepal Rastra Bank has instructed commercial banks to submit detailed information on all financial transactions greater than Rs. 7,00,000 carried out by the banks' customers. This applies to financial transactions that took place in the first six months of this fiscal year, i.e. from Shrawan 01 to Poush 30. The Money Laundering Surveillance Unit forwarded the instruction in relation to its anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism efforts. For each transaction worth Rs. 7 lakhs or higher, commercial banks are required to submit the details of the transactions. The report should include the name of the account holder, account number, exact date, and monetary amount of transaction, among other details. Commercial banks have also been given a sub-heading to mention any additional remark if necessary. "
2022-01-26,How Did Commercial Bank Perform During Q2? A Detailed Analysis Of Major Fundamental Indicators,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-bank-comparative-q2-78-79-2022-01-26,"Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the low-interest-rate environment and bad loans that might occur, banks have reported improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter. In this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks and do a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. As per the net profit of the unaudited second quarter of FY 2078/79, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 2.66 Arba. Similarly, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 2.40 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a net profit of Rs 2.18 Arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 50 crores. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.26 Arba. All commercial banks except 6 have increased net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year.   The total net profit for the year is Rs 34.13 Arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 31.05 Arba. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 23.79 Arba capital and Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) with Rs 18.65 Arba paid-up capital.   * ADBL capital includes 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares. With an industry average of Rs 8.10 Arba, 9 banks stand above the average benchmark in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.18 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.89 Arba. Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 17.23 Arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 15.58 Arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.57 kharba as a deposit. In total 14 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the second quarter of FY 2078/79, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.94 kharba, Global IME Bank (GBIME) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.71 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBB) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.42 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 80 Arba.  The top position in loans and advances is occupied by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.61 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.56 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 2.15 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 74 Arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.46 Kharba. 12 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.46 Kharba. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 5.24 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 4.80 Arba and Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB)  with an income of Rs 4.52 Arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 2.58 Arba. 12 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.55 Arba.  NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.21 Arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited  (RBB) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.77 Arba.  Major indicators: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 41.54 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 27.54 per share. Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 25.19 per share. Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 11.47 per share.  The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 18.89. 11 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 238.12 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) is in the second position with Rs 223.61. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q2 of FY 2078/79 i.e. Rs 220.18. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 121.19 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 161.39 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the least PE ratio of 14.56 times. It is followed by Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) with a PE ratio of 16.78 times. 19 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 21.93 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for the quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) reported the lowest NPL of 0.14% in terms of asset quality. SBI is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.26%.  Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has reported the highest NPL of 3.06%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have the highest NPL of 2.08%.  In terms of the Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.30%. This is followed by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with a CAR of 15.95%.  Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 2078/79:  Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the low-interest-rate environment and bad loans that might occur, banks have reported improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter. In this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks and do a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. As per the net profit of the unaudited second quarter of FY 2078/79, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 2.66 Arba. Similarly, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 2.40 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a net profit of Rs 2.18 Arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 50 crores. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.26 Arba. All commercial banks except 6 have increased net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year.   The total net profit for the year is Rs 34.13 Arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 31.05 Arba. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 23.79 Arba capital and Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) with Rs 18.65 Arba paid-up capital.   * ADBL capital includes 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares. With an industry average of Rs 8.10 Arba, 9 banks stand above the average benchmark in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.18 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.89 Arba. Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 17.23 Arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 15.58 Arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.57 kharba as a deposit. In total 14 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the second quarter of FY 2078/79, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.94 kharba, Global IME Bank (GBIME) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.71 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBB) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.42 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 80 Arba.  The top position in loans and advances is occupied by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.61 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.56 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 2.15 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 74 Arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.46 Kharba. 12 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.46 Kharba. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 5.24 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 4.80 Arba and Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB)  with an income of Rs 4.52 Arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 2.58 Arba. 12 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.55 Arba.  NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.21 Arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited  (RBB) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.77 Arba.  Major indicators: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 41.54 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 27.54 per share. Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 25.19 per share. Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 11.47 per share.  The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 18.89. 11 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 238.12 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) is in the second position with Rs 223.61. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q2 of FY 2078/79 i.e. Rs 220.18. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 121.19 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 161.39 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the least PE ratio of 14.56 times. It is followed by Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) with a PE ratio of 16.78 times. 19 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 21.93 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for the quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) reported the lowest NPL of 0.14% in terms of asset quality. SBI is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.26%.  Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has reported the highest NPL of 3.06%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have the highest NPL of 2.08%.  In terms of the Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.30%. This is followed by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with a CAR of 15.95%.  Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 2078/79:  Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the low-interest-rate environment and bad loans that might occur, banks have reported improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter. In this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks and do a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. As per the net profit of the unaudited second quarter of FY 2078/79, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 2.66 Arba. Similarly, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 2.40 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a net profit of Rs 2.18 Arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 50 crores. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.26 Arba. All commercial banks except 6 have increased net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last fiscal year.   The total net profit for the year is Rs 34.13 Arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 31.05 Arba. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 23.79 Arba capital and Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) with Rs 18.65 Arba paid-up capital.   * ADBL capital includes 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares. With an industry average of Rs 8.10 Arba, 9 banks stand above the average benchmark in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.18 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.89 Arba. Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 17.23 Arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 15.58 Arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.57 kharba as a deposit. In total 14 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the second quarter of FY 2078/79, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.94 kharba, Global IME Bank (GBIME) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.71 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBB) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.42 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 80 Arba.  The top position in loans and advances is occupied by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.61 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.56 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 2.15 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 74 Arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.46 Kharba. 12 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.46 Kharba. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 5.24 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 4.80 Arba and Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB)  with an income of Rs 4.52 Arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 2.58 Arba. 12 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.55 Arba.  NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.21 Arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited  (RBB) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.77 Arba.  Major indicators: NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 41.54 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 27.54 per share. Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 25.19 per share. Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 11.47 per share.  The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 18.89. 11 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 238.12 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) is in the second position with Rs 223.61. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q2 of FY 2078/79 i.e. Rs 220.18. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 121.19 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 161.39 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the least PE ratio of 14.56 times. It is followed by Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) with a PE ratio of 16.78 times. 19 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 21.93 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for the quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) reported the lowest NPL of 0.14% in terms of asset quality. SBI is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.26%.  Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has reported the highest NPL of 3.06%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have the highest NPL of 2.08%.  In terms of the Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.30%. This is followed by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with a CAR of 15.95%.  Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 2078/79:  "
2022-01-26,"Lending Comes to An Almost Halt in Magh, Deposit Down Rs. 17 Billion",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/lending-comes-to-an-almost-halt-in-second-week-of-magh-deposit-down-rs-17-billion-2022-01-26,"The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Magh 07, 2078, i.e. the last working day of the first working week of Magh. The average CD ratio as of this date is 90.43%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 13 billion in the second week of Magh, and the figure is at Rs. 4,311 billion. In the last week of Poush, this figure had gone up by Rs. 17 billion from the week before that. Rs. 4,210 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 101 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 1 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,144 billion. Rs. 4,055 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 99 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Magh 07, 2078, i.e. the last working day of the first working week of Magh. The average CD ratio as of this date is 90.43%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 13 billion in the second week of Magh, and the figure is at Rs. 4,311 billion. In the last week of Poush, this figure had gone up by Rs. 17 billion from the week before that. Rs. 4,210 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 101 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 1 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,144 billion. Rs. 4,055 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 99 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Magh 07, 2078, i.e. the last working day of the first working week of Magh. The average CD ratio as of this date is 90.43%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 13 billion in the second week of Magh, and the figure is at Rs. 4,311 billion. In the last week of Poush, this figure had gone up by Rs. 17 billion from the week before that. Rs. 4,210 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 101 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 1 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,144 billion. Rs. 4,055 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 99 billion is in foreign currency. "
2022-01-23,"Nabil Bank, CNI Women Leadership Forum and Women Power Development Centre ink tripartite agreement; to promote entrepreneurial development of Nepalese women",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-cni-women-leadership-forum-and-women-power-development-centre-ink-tripartite-agreement-to-promote-entrepreneurial-development-of-nepalese-women-2022-01-23,"Nabil Bank, CNI Women Leadership Forum, and Women Power Development Centre have entered into a tripartite agreement so as to promote women’s entrepreneurial development in Nepal.   The MoU was signed between CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Anil Keshari Shah, Coordinator of CNI Women Leadership Forum Ms. Chhaya Sharma, and ED of Women Power Development Centre Ms. Kabita Gurung amid a program. Nabil Bank, CNI Women Leadership Forum, and Women Power Development Centre have entered into a tripartite agreement so as to promote women’s entrepreneurial development in Nepal.   The MoU was signed between CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Anil Keshari Shah, Coordinator of CNI Women Leadership Forum Ms. Chhaya Sharma, and ED of Women Power Development Centre Ms. Kabita Gurung amid a program. Nabil Bank, CNI Women Leadership Forum, and Women Power Development Centre have entered into a tripartite agreement so as to promote women’s entrepreneurial development in Nepal.   The MoU was signed between CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Anil Keshari Shah, Coordinator of CNI Women Leadership Forum Ms. Chhaya Sharma, and ED of Women Power Development Centre Ms. Kabita Gurung amid a program. "
2022-01-21,Use This Ratio In Your Arsenal While Analyzing Banks,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/use-this-ratio-in-your-arsenal-while-analyzing-banks-2022-01-20,"Article by Prajwal Shrestha, Sharesansar Financial Analyst A quick question. What ratios do you as an investor assess to identify the financial health of any bank? As an investor, we cannot rely on the ratios we are using to assess the financial health of the manufacturing sector, Hotel, Hydropower, etc. to analyze the banking sector. For one, the banking sector runs on a different business model which makes the financial statements quite unique from other sectors’ financial statements. But let me be clear, once an investor is aware of how the banks run their operations, it will be easier to assess their financial statements. So, how can one analyze a bank? Rather than diving into all the ratios at once, we will break it down into segments and learn about each one in different articles. So, to start off, we will be discussing the CASA ratio which is one of the important ratios to assess the operational efficiency of any bank. Some of us might be new to this word but it’s just the Current Account and Savings Account. Generally, a Current account is opened by a company whereas a Savings account is opened by an individual. So, what does the CASA ratio really represent? It represents the ratio of the Current account and Savings account in relation to the total deposit a bank has in its books. Higher the concentration of the Current Account and Savings Account in a total deposit lower the cost of funds for the bank. This means that the bank is getting deposits at a lower cost which allows their Net Interest Income (NII) to expand because they are paying less interest on their deposit. So, the higher the CASA ratio, the better the core business margin (Net Interest Margin). This leads to better operating efficiency and higher profitability. We will be discussing Net Interest Margin (NIM) in the upcoming article. The calculation of the CASA ratio is pretty straightforward.  Let’s suppose Bank A has a Current account deposit of Rs. 15 and a Savings Account deposit of Rs. 20 from the total deposit of Rs. 100. To quickly calculate it, we add CA and SA and divide it by the total deposit. In this case, we get 35% which indicates that Bank A has 35% Current Account and Savings Account while the rest 65% is covered by Fixed and Call deposits. Now that we know what the CASA ratio is and how to interpret it, let's look at the real-time CASA ratios of all the commercial banks. As per the monthly report of Manghsir, 2078 published by Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB), Sharesansar calculated the CASA ratio of each of the commercial Banks to see how the banks have been attracting deposits and how they have been maintaining their CASA deposits.  While analyzing the CASA Ratio of individual banks, we see that most of the company’s ratio has declined compared to the earlier month (Kartik, 2078). In terms of the average figure, during the month of Manghsir, 2078, 10 companies have reported their CASA ratio above an average of 38.66%. We can see that the average figure for the industry has declined by 1.33% in Manghsir, 2078 from Kartik 2078. The banks have been increasing their interest rate to attract long-term deposits in the market for the last few months since the demand for loans was higher while the banks were facing a crisis. This competition might have affected the CASA deposit of most of the banks. In terms of the highest CASA ratio, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has reported 74.18%. On the flip side, Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has reported a CASA ratio of 21.87%. Unlike Fixed deposits, Current Accounts and Savings Accounts are short-term deposits, meaning customer can withdraw their savings as per their need. This affects the ability of the bank to provide long-term loans to the borrowers. So, too much of the CASA deposit might hinder the goal of the bank to finance long-term projects. Prajwal Shrestha is a financial analyst at sharesansar covering weekly analysis, quarterly analysis, and fundamental analysis of companies. He dedicates most of his time reading annual reports of publicly traded companies and turns the data into information. If you have any queries, you can reach him via LinkedIn or e-mail. Article by Prajwal Shrestha, Sharesansar Financial Analyst A quick question. What ratios do you as an investor assess to identify the financial health of any bank? As an investor, we cannot rely on the ratios we are using to assess the financial health of the manufacturing sector, Hotel, Hydropower, etc. to analyze the banking sector. For one, the banking sector runs on a different business model which makes the financial statements quite unique from other sectors’ financial statements. But let me be clear, once an investor is aware of how the banks run their operations, it will be easier to assess their financial statements. So, how can one analyze a bank? Rather than diving into all the ratios at once, we will break it down into segments and learn about each one in different articles. So, to start off, we will be discussing the CASA ratio which is one of the important ratios to assess the operational efficiency of any bank. Some of us might be new to this word but it’s just the Current Account and Savings Account. Generally, a Current account is opened by a company whereas a Savings account is opened by an individual. So, what does the CASA ratio really represent? It represents the ratio of the Current account and Savings account in relation to the total deposit a bank has in its books. Higher the concentration of the Current Account and Savings Account in a total deposit lower the cost of funds for the bank. This means that the bank is getting deposits at a lower cost which allows their Net Interest Income (NII) to expand because they are paying less interest on their deposit. So, the higher the CASA ratio, the better the core business margin (Net Interest Margin). This leads to better operating efficiency and higher profitability. We will be discussing Net Interest Margin (NIM) in the upcoming article. The calculation of the CASA ratio is pretty straightforward.  Let’s suppose Bank A has a Current account deposit of Rs. 15 and a Savings Account deposit of Rs. 20 from the total deposit of Rs. 100. To quickly calculate it, we add CA and SA and divide it by the total deposit. In this case, we get 35% which indicates that Bank A has 35% Current Account and Savings Account while the rest 65% is covered by Fixed and Call deposits. Now that we know what the CASA ratio is and how to interpret it, let's look at the real-time CASA ratios of all the commercial banks. As per the monthly report of Manghsir, 2078 published by Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB), Sharesansar calculated the CASA ratio of each of the commercial Banks to see how the banks have been attracting deposits and how they have been maintaining their CASA deposits.  While analyzing the CASA Ratio of individual banks, we see that most of the company’s ratio has declined compared to the earlier month (Kartik, 2078). In terms of the average figure, during the month of Manghsir, 2078, 10 companies have reported their CASA ratio above an average of 38.66%. We can see that the average figure for the industry has declined by 1.33% in Manghsir, 2078 from Kartik 2078. The banks have been increasing their interest rate to attract long-term deposits in the market for the last few months since the demand for loans was higher while the banks were facing a crisis. This competition might have affected the CASA deposit of most of the banks. In terms of the highest CASA ratio, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has reported 74.18%. On the flip side, Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has reported a CASA ratio of 21.87%. Unlike Fixed deposits, Current Accounts and Savings Accounts are short-term deposits, meaning customer can withdraw their savings as per their need. This affects the ability of the bank to provide long-term loans to the borrowers. So, too much of the CASA deposit might hinder the goal of the bank to finance long-term projects. Prajwal Shrestha is a financial analyst at sharesansar covering weekly analysis, quarterly analysis, and fundamental analysis of companies. He dedicates most of his time reading annual reports of publicly traded companies and turns the data into information. If you have any queries, you can reach him via LinkedIn or e-mail. Article by Prajwal Shrestha, Sharesansar Financial Analyst A quick question. What ratios do you as an investor assess to identify the financial health of any bank? As an investor, we cannot rely on the ratios we are using to assess the financial health of the manufacturing sector, Hotel, Hydropower, etc. to analyze the banking sector. For one, the banking sector runs on a different business model which makes the financial statements quite unique from other sectors’ financial statements. But let me be clear, once an investor is aware of how the banks run their operations, it will be easier to assess their financial statements. So, how can one analyze a bank? Rather than diving into all the ratios at once, we will break it down into segments and learn about each one in different articles. So, to start off, we will be discussing the CASA ratio which is one of the important ratios to assess the operational efficiency of any bank. Some of us might be new to this word but it’s just the Current Account and Savings Account. Generally, a Current account is opened by a company whereas a Savings account is opened by an individual. So, what does the CASA ratio really represent? It represents the ratio of the Current account and Savings account in relation to the total deposit a bank has in its books. Higher the concentration of the Current Account and Savings Account in a total deposit lower the cost of funds for the bank. This means that the bank is getting deposits at a lower cost which allows their Net Interest Income (NII) to expand because they are paying less interest on their deposit. So, the higher the CASA ratio, the better the core business margin (Net Interest Margin). This leads to better operating efficiency and higher profitability. We will be discussing Net Interest Margin (NIM) in the upcoming article. The calculation of the CASA ratio is pretty straightforward.  Let’s suppose Bank A has a Current account deposit of Rs. 15 and a Savings Account deposit of Rs. 20 from the total deposit of Rs. 100. To quickly calculate it, we add CA and SA and divide it by the total deposit. In this case, we get 35% which indicates that Bank A has 35% Current Account and Savings Account while the rest 65% is covered by Fixed and Call deposits. Now that we know what the CASA ratio is and how to interpret it, let's look at the real-time CASA ratios of all the commercial banks. As per the monthly report of Manghsir, 2078 published by Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB), Sharesansar calculated the CASA ratio of each of the commercial Banks to see how the banks have been attracting deposits and how they have been maintaining their CASA deposits.  While analyzing the CASA Ratio of individual banks, we see that most of the company’s ratio has declined compared to the earlier month (Kartik, 2078). In terms of the average figure, during the month of Manghsir, 2078, 10 companies have reported their CASA ratio above an average of 38.66%. We can see that the average figure for the industry has declined by 1.33% in Manghsir, 2078 from Kartik 2078. The banks have been increasing their interest rate to attract long-term deposits in the market for the last few months since the demand for loans was higher while the banks were facing a crisis. This competition might have affected the CASA deposit of most of the banks. In terms of the highest CASA ratio, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has reported 74.18%. On the flip side, Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has reported a CASA ratio of 21.87%. Unlike Fixed deposits, Current Accounts and Savings Accounts are short-term deposits, meaning customer can withdraw their savings as per their need. This affects the ability of the bank to provide long-term loans to the borrowers. So, too much of the CASA deposit might hinder the goal of the bank to finance long-term projects. Prajwal Shrestha is a financial analyst at sharesansar covering weekly analysis, quarterly analysis, and fundamental analysis of companies. He dedicates most of his time reading annual reports of publicly traded companies and turns the data into information. If you have any queries, you can reach him via LinkedIn or e-mail. "
2022-01-21,Nabil Bank Reports Satisfactory Growth In Profitablity Indicators In Q2; Company Set To Acquire Nepal Bangladesh Bank,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-reports-satisfactory-growth-in-profitablity-indicators-in-q2-company-set-to-acquire-nepal-bangladesh-bank-2022-01-21,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its second-quarter report for the FY 2078/2079 with an increment in Net Profit by 8.20%. The bank's net profit has increased from Rs. 2.01 Arba in the second quarter of FY 2077/2078 to Rs. 2.18 Arba in the second quarter of FY 2078/2079. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 1.45 Arba as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 4.06% to Rs. 2.32 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 8.68% to Rs. 2.15 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the second quarter. The bank's Net Interest Income (core business income) has increased by 35.13% to Rs. 4.21 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 18.49 Arba with Rs. 15.58 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 1.11%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 23.59 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 184.28. The company traded at a P/E multiple of 47.06 times. Nabil Bank Limited recently sealed the deal to acquire Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited Click here for the Q2 report Major Highlights: Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its second-quarter report for the FY 2078/2079 with an increment in Net Profit by 8.20%. The bank's net profit has increased from Rs. 2.01 Arba in the second quarter of FY 2077/2078 to Rs. 2.18 Arba in the second quarter of FY 2078/2079. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 1.45 Arba as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 4.06% to Rs. 2.32 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 8.68% to Rs. 2.15 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the second quarter. The bank's Net Interest Income (core business income) has increased by 35.13% to Rs. 4.21 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 18.49 Arba with Rs. 15.58 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 1.11%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 23.59 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 184.28. The company traded at a P/E multiple of 47.06 times. Nabil Bank Limited recently sealed the deal to acquire Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited Click here for the Q2 report Major Highlights: Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its second-quarter report for the FY 2078/2079 with an increment in Net Profit by 8.20%. The bank's net profit has increased from Rs. 2.01 Arba in the second quarter of FY 2077/2078 to Rs. 2.18 Arba in the second quarter of FY 2078/2079. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 1.45 Arba as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 4.06% to Rs. 2.32 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 8.68% to Rs. 2.15 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the second quarter. The bank's Net Interest Income (core business income) has increased by 35.13% to Rs. 4.21 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 18.49 Arba with Rs. 15.58 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 1.11%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 23.59 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 184.28. The company traded at a P/E multiple of 47.06 times. Nabil Bank Limited recently sealed the deal to acquire Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited Click here for the Q2 report Major Highlights: "
2022-01-20,Nabil Bank chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal receives his oath from NRB Governor; assumes his office for one more tenure,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-chairman-mr-upendra-prasad-poudyal-receives-his-oath-from-nrb-governor-assumes-his-office-for-one-more-tenure-2022-01-20,"Newly reappointed chairman of Nabil Bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal has received his oath of designation and secrecy from the Nepal Rastra Bank Governor Mr. Maha Prasad Adhikari on Magh 5, 2078.  The oath-taking ceremony was also attended by Deputy Governors Ms. Neelam Dhungana Timsina, Mr. Bam Bahadur Mishra, ED of BFI Regulation Department Mr. Dev Kumar Dhakal, ED of bank supervision department Dr. Gunakar Bhatt, CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Anil Keshari Shah, among other officials. The bank currently has 135 branches, 189 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 remit agents spread across the nation. Newly reappointed chairman of Nabil Bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal has received his oath of designation and secrecy from the Nepal Rastra Bank Governor Mr. Maha Prasad Adhikari on Magh 5, 2078.  The oath-taking ceremony was also attended by Deputy Governors Ms. Neelam Dhungana Timsina, Mr. Bam Bahadur Mishra, ED of BFI Regulation Department Mr. Dev Kumar Dhakal, ED of bank supervision department Dr. Gunakar Bhatt, CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Anil Keshari Shah, among other officials. The bank currently has 135 branches, 189 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 remit agents spread across the nation. Newly reappointed chairman of Nabil Bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal has received his oath of designation and secrecy from the Nepal Rastra Bank Governor Mr. Maha Prasad Adhikari on Magh 5, 2078.  The oath-taking ceremony was also attended by Deputy Governors Ms. Neelam Dhungana Timsina, Mr. Bam Bahadur Mishra, ED of BFI Regulation Department Mr. Dev Kumar Dhakal, ED of bank supervision department Dr. Gunakar Bhatt, CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Anil Keshari Shah, among other officials. The bank currently has 135 branches, 189 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 remit agents spread across the nation. "
2022-01-19,"1,62,498 Promoter Shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta (SWBBL) in Auction From Today",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/162498-promoter-shares-of-swabalamban-laghubitta-swbbl-in-auction-from-today-2022-01-19,"Nabil Bank Limited is auctioning the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SWBBL). The auction has opened today, i.e. 5th Magh and will close on 18th Magh, 2078. 1,62,498 units promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta are being auctioned. Rs. 650 is the minimum bid rate for the auction. While the minimum bid quantity for shares is 1000 units, there is no upper limit for both shares. Although bidders can bid for the entirety of the issue, they are required to abide by Nepal Rastra Bank's rule to not exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Nabil Invest has been appointed the auction manager. Bids will be opened at the premises of the auction manager on Magh 19, starting at 10 am that day. Nabil Bank Limited is auctioning the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SWBBL). The auction has opened today, i.e. 5th Magh and will close on 18th Magh, 2078. 1,62,498 units promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta are being auctioned. Rs. 650 is the minimum bid rate for the auction. While the minimum bid quantity for shares is 1000 units, there is no upper limit for both shares. Although bidders can bid for the entirety of the issue, they are required to abide by Nepal Rastra Bank's rule to not exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Nabil Invest has been appointed the auction manager. Bids will be opened at the premises of the auction manager on Magh 19, starting at 10 am that day. Nabil Bank Limited is auctioning the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SWBBL). The auction has opened today, i.e. 5th Magh and will close on 18th Magh, 2078. 1,62,498 units promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta are being auctioned. Rs. 650 is the minimum bid rate for the auction. While the minimum bid quantity for shares is 1000 units, there is no upper limit for both shares. Although bidders can bid for the entirety of the issue, they are required to abide by Nepal Rastra Bank's rule to not exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Nabil Invest has been appointed the auction manager. Bids will be opened at the premises of the auction manager on Magh 19, starting at 10 am that day. "
2022-01-19,"All Commercial Banks Profitable in First 5 Months of FY, Development Banks Report Total Net Profit of Rs. 2.43 Arba",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/all-commercial-banks-profitable-in-first-5-months-of-fy-development-banks-report-total-net-profit-of-rs-243-arba-2022-01-19,"Nepal Rastra Bank has unveiled the recent statistics covering the net profit of commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies for up to Mangshir of the current fiscal year 2078/79. Data shows that commercial banks all together have realized a total net profit of Rs. 28 Arba and 20 crores. Out of the 27 commercial banks, NIC Asia stands at the top position with a net profit of Rs. 2 Arba. Likewise, Global IME Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 1 Arba and 96 crores. Meanwhile, Nabil Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 1 Arba and 89 crores. On the contrary, Century Commercial Bank has the least net profit of Rs. 40 crores. Similarly, in the first five months of the current fiscal year 2078/79, development banks have succeeded to make a total net profit of Rs. 2 Arba and 43 crores. Among the 17 development banks, 5 have reported net losses in the period. Muktinath Bikas Bank has realized an impressive net profit of Rs. 46.12 crores, the highest in the industry. Likewise, Garima Bikas Bank stands in the second position with a net profit of Rs. 34.33 crores. Jyoti Bikas Bank, with a net profit of Rs. 33.94 crores, stands in the third position. On the opposite, data of NRB shows that Narayani, Corporate, Sindhu, Salapa, and Saptakoshi Development Bank reported net losses during the period. Finance companies have made a net profit of Rs. 54.6 crores. Out of the 17 companies, two finance companies have reported a net loss in the first five months, while the rest 15 are in a profit. Best Finance Company comes first on the list with a net profit of Rs. 12.1 crores. Likewise, Goodwill Finance and ICFC Finance stand in the second and third position with a net profit of Rs. 7.754 crores and Rs. 7.734 crores respectively. Samriddhi Finance and Capital Merchant finance have reported net losses of Rs. 10.46 lakhs and Rs. 35.10 lakhs respectively. Nepal Rastra Bank has unveiled the recent statistics covering the net profit of commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies for up to Mangshir of the current fiscal year 2078/79. Data shows that commercial banks all together have realized a total net profit of Rs. 28 Arba and 20 crores. Out of the 27 commercial banks, NIC Asia stands at the top position with a net profit of Rs. 2 Arba. Likewise, Global IME Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 1 Arba and 96 crores. Meanwhile, Nabil Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 1 Arba and 89 crores. On the contrary, Century Commercial Bank has the least net profit of Rs. 40 crores. Similarly, in the first five months of the current fiscal year 2078/79, development banks have succeeded to make a total net profit of Rs. 2 Arba and 43 crores. Among the 17 development banks, 5 have reported net losses in the period. Muktinath Bikas Bank has realized an impressive net profit of Rs. 46.12 crores, the highest in the industry. Likewise, Garima Bikas Bank stands in the second position with a net profit of Rs. 34.33 crores. Jyoti Bikas Bank, with a net profit of Rs. 33.94 crores, stands in the third position. On the opposite, data of NRB shows that Narayani, Corporate, Sindhu, Salapa, and Saptakoshi Development Bank reported net losses during the period. Finance companies have made a net profit of Rs. 54.6 crores. Out of the 17 companies, two finance companies have reported a net loss in the first five months, while the rest 15 are in a profit. Best Finance Company comes first on the list with a net profit of Rs. 12.1 crores. Likewise, Goodwill Finance and ICFC Finance stand in the second and third position with a net profit of Rs. 7.754 crores and Rs. 7.734 crores respectively. Samriddhi Finance and Capital Merchant finance have reported net losses of Rs. 10.46 lakhs and Rs. 35.10 lakhs respectively. Nepal Rastra Bank has unveiled the recent statistics covering the net profit of commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies for up to Mangshir of the current fiscal year 2078/79. Data shows that commercial banks all together have realized a total net profit of Rs. 28 Arba and 20 crores. Out of the 27 commercial banks, NIC Asia stands at the top position with a net profit of Rs. 2 Arba. Likewise, Global IME Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 1 Arba and 96 crores. Meanwhile, Nabil Bank has realized a net profit of Rs. 1 Arba and 89 crores. On the contrary, Century Commercial Bank has the least net profit of Rs. 40 crores. Similarly, in the first five months of the current fiscal year 2078/79, development banks have succeeded to make a total net profit of Rs. 2 Arba and 43 crores. Among the 17 development banks, 5 have reported net losses in the period. Muktinath Bikas Bank has realized an impressive net profit of Rs. 46.12 crores, the highest in the industry. Likewise, Garima Bikas Bank stands in the second position with a net profit of Rs. 34.33 crores. Jyoti Bikas Bank, with a net profit of Rs. 33.94 crores, stands in the third position. On the opposite, data of NRB shows that Narayani, Corporate, Sindhu, Salapa, and Saptakoshi Development Bank reported net losses during the period. Finance companies have made a net profit of Rs. 54.6 crores. Out of the 17 companies, two finance companies have reported a net loss in the first five months, while the rest 15 are in a profit. Best Finance Company comes first on the list with a net profit of Rs. 12.1 crores. Likewise, Goodwill Finance and ICFC Finance stand in the second and third position with a net profit of Rs. 7.754 crores and Rs. 7.734 crores respectively. Samriddhi Finance and Capital Merchant finance have reported net losses of Rs. 10.46 lakhs and Rs. 35.10 lakhs respectively. "
2022-01-17,"Deposit Collection Rose Rs. 17 B in Last Week of Poush, Lending Rose Twice As Much",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/deposit-collection-rose-rs-17-b-in-last-week-of-poush-lending-rose-twice-as-much-2022-01-17,"The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Poush 30, 2078, i.e. the last working day of the month's last week. The total deposit went up by Rs. 17 billion in the fifth week of Poush, and the figure is at Rs. 4,324 billion. In the fourth week, this figure had gone up by Rs. 58 billion from the week before that. Rs. 4,227 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 97 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 35 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,143 billion. Rs. 4,037 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 106 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Poush 30, 2078, i.e. the last working day of the month's last week. The total deposit went up by Rs. 17 billion in the fifth week of Poush, and the figure is at Rs. 4,324 billion. In the fourth week, this figure had gone up by Rs. 58 billion from the week before that. Rs. 4,227 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 97 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 35 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,143 billion. Rs. 4,037 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 106 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Poush 30, 2078, i.e. the last working day of the month's last week. The total deposit went up by Rs. 17 billion in the fifth week of Poush, and the figure is at Rs. 4,324 billion. In the fourth week, this figure had gone up by Rs. 58 billion from the week before that. Rs. 4,227 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 97 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 35 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,143 billion. Rs. 4,037 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 106 billion is in foreign currency. "
2022-01-16,Nabil Bank convenes its 37th AGM; endorses proposal of 38% dividend and reappoints Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal as its chairman,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-convenes-its-37th-agm-endorses-proposal-of-38-dividend-and-reappoints-mr-upendra-prasad-poudyal-as-its-chairman-2022-01-16,"Nabil Bank has convened its 37th AGM for the FY 2077-78 under the leadership of its chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal on Poush 30, 2078.  Apart from the regular financial reports, The AGM has endorsed the board’s proposal to provide 33.60% bonus shares and 4.40% cash dividend to its shareholders from the profit it had made in the previous fiscal year. After the bonus shares, the paid-up value of the bank will scale up to Rs 18.49 arba. The AGM also re-elected Mr. Udaya Krishna Upadhya and Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal as directors from the promoter shareholder group while the board meeting has reappointed Mr. Paudel as chairman of the bank for another tenure, as per the media statement. The bank had earned a net profit of Rs 4.53 arba, registered EPS of Rs 33.57 during the review period, as per the media statement. The bank currently provides its services to its customers from its 135 branches, 187 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 remit agents under its network. Nabil Bank has convened its 37th AGM for the FY 2077-78 under the leadership of its chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal on Poush 30, 2078.  Apart from the regular financial reports, The AGM has endorsed the board’s proposal to provide 33.60% bonus shares and 4.40% cash dividend to its shareholders from the profit it had made in the previous fiscal year. After the bonus shares, the paid-up value of the bank will scale up to Rs 18.49 arba. The AGM also re-elected Mr. Udaya Krishna Upadhya and Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal as directors from the promoter shareholder group while the board meeting has reappointed Mr. Paudel as chairman of the bank for another tenure, as per the media statement. The bank had earned a net profit of Rs 4.53 arba, registered EPS of Rs 33.57 during the review period, as per the media statement. The bank currently provides its services to its customers from its 135 branches, 187 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 remit agents under its network. Nabil Bank has convened its 37th AGM for the FY 2077-78 under the leadership of its chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal on Poush 30, 2078.  Apart from the regular financial reports, The AGM has endorsed the board’s proposal to provide 33.60% bonus shares and 4.40% cash dividend to its shareholders from the profit it had made in the previous fiscal year. After the bonus shares, the paid-up value of the bank will scale up to Rs 18.49 arba. The AGM also re-elected Mr. Udaya Krishna Upadhya and Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal as directors from the promoter shareholder group while the board meeting has reappointed Mr. Paudel as chairman of the bank for another tenure, as per the media statement. The bank had earned a net profit of Rs 4.53 arba, registered EPS of Rs 33.57 during the review period, as per the media statement. The bank currently provides its services to its customers from its 135 branches, 187 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 remit agents under its network. "
2022-01-14,"Commercial Banks Keep Interest Rate Stable for Magh, Development Banks and Finance Companies Raise Slightly",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-keep-interest-rate-stable-for-magh-development-banks-and-finance-companies-raise-slightly-2022-01-14,"Banks and Financial Institutions have unveiled the interest rates profile for the month of Magh. Commercial banks have kept their interest rate profile unchanged. The maximum interest rate on fixed deposits provided by commercial banks is 10.05%, with Standard Chartered Bank as an exception. SCB has only 9.5% as its maximum interest rate on fixed deposits. In contrast, institutions will be paid a maximum of 9.05% on fixed deposits.  It is to be noted that most banks had maintained a maximum rate of 10.05% already in the month of Mangsir and Poush. Meanwhile, development banks have kept 10.35% as the maximum interest rate on fixed deposits (individuals) for the month of Magh. In the previous month of Poush, the maximum rate was 10.25%. In the month of Magh, institutions will get interest payment of not more than 9.35% p.a. In the previous month of Poush, the maximum rate was 9.25% for institutions. In contrast, the interest rate on fixed deposits given by finance companies is capped at 10.65% for individuals. In the month of Magh, institutions will get interest payment of not more than 9.65% p.a. In the previous month of Poush, the maximum rate was 10.35% for individuals and 9.35% for institutions. Banks and Financial Institutions have unveiled the interest rates profile for the month of Magh. Commercial banks have kept their interest rate profile unchanged. The maximum interest rate on fixed deposits provided by commercial banks is 10.05%, with Standard Chartered Bank as an exception. SCB has only 9.5% as its maximum interest rate on fixed deposits. In contrast, institutions will be paid a maximum of 9.05% on fixed deposits.  It is to be noted that most banks had maintained a maximum rate of 10.05% already in the month of Mangsir and Poush. Meanwhile, development banks have kept 10.35% as the maximum interest rate on fixed deposits (individuals) for the month of Magh. In the previous month of Poush, the maximum rate was 10.25%. In the month of Magh, institutions will get interest payment of not more than 9.35% p.a. In the previous month of Poush, the maximum rate was 9.25% for institutions. In contrast, the interest rate on fixed deposits given by finance companies is capped at 10.65% for individuals. In the month of Magh, institutions will get interest payment of not more than 9.65% p.a. In the previous month of Poush, the maximum rate was 10.35% for individuals and 9.35% for institutions. Banks and Financial Institutions have unveiled the interest rates profile for the month of Magh. Commercial banks have kept their interest rate profile unchanged. The maximum interest rate on fixed deposits provided by commercial banks is 10.05%, with Standard Chartered Bank as an exception. SCB has only 9.5% as its maximum interest rate on fixed deposits. In contrast, institutions will be paid a maximum of 9.05% on fixed deposits.  It is to be noted that most banks had maintained a maximum rate of 10.05% already in the month of Mangsir and Poush. Meanwhile, development banks have kept 10.35% as the maximum interest rate on fixed deposits (individuals) for the month of Magh. In the previous month of Poush, the maximum rate was 10.25%. In the month of Magh, institutions will get interest payment of not more than 9.35% p.a. In the previous month of Poush, the maximum rate was 9.25% for institutions. In contrast, the interest rate on fixed deposits given by finance companies is capped at 10.65% for individuals. In the month of Magh, institutions will get interest payment of not more than 9.65% p.a. In the previous month of Poush, the maximum rate was 10.35% for individuals and 9.35% for institutions. "
2022-01-14,Nabil Bank finally seals acquisition deal with Nepal Bangladesh Bank; shareholders of NBB to get 43 shares of NABIL for NBB's 100 shares after Acquisition,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-finally-seals-acquisition-deal-with-nepal-bangladesh-bank-shareholders-of-nbb-to-get-43-shares-for-nabils-100-shares-after-acquisition-2022-01-14,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) have inked a preliminary agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43.  The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078. The MoU of the acquisition was signed by a director of Nabil Bank Mr. Udaya Krishna Upadhya and director of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Mr. Indra Bahadur Thapa amid a program. The new entity is expected to begin the joint transaction within five months after completing all the legal and regulatory formalities where the revamped institution will have core capital of Rs 43 Arba, paid-up value of Rs 22.5 Arba, loans of Rs 300 Arba, deposits of Rs 314 Arba, 235 branches, 16 lakh plus customers, making it one of the leading banks in the nation, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) have inked a preliminary agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43.  The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078. The MoU of the acquisition was signed by a director of Nabil Bank Mr. Udaya Krishna Upadhya and director of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Mr. Indra Bahadur Thapa amid a program. The new entity is expected to begin the joint transaction within five months after completing all the legal and regulatory formalities where the revamped institution will have core capital of Rs 43 Arba, paid-up value of Rs 22.5 Arba, loans of Rs 300 Arba, deposits of Rs 314 Arba, 235 branches, 16 lakh plus customers, making it one of the leading banks in the nation, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) have inked a preliminary agreement for the acquisition of NBB by Nabil Bank in a share swap ratio of 100:43.  The agreement of acquisition by Nabil Bank was endorsed by boards of both banks on Poush 29, 2078. The MoU of the acquisition was signed by a director of Nabil Bank Mr. Udaya Krishna Upadhya and director of Nepal Bangladesh Bank Mr. Indra Bahadur Thapa amid a program. The new entity is expected to begin the joint transaction within five months after completing all the legal and regulatory formalities where the revamped institution will have core capital of Rs 43 Arba, paid-up value of Rs 22.5 Arba, loans of Rs 300 Arba, deposits of Rs 314 Arba, 235 branches, 16 lakh plus customers, making it one of the leading banks in the nation, as per the media statement. "
2022-01-11,Nabil Bank enters into agreement to support National Dialogue on Agriculture Financing,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-enters-into-agreement-to-support-national-dialogue-on-agriculture-financing-2022-01-11,"Nabil Bank has entered into an agreement with its existing strategic business partner, R&D Innovative Solution Pvt. Ltd. (R&D) to support the upcoming Krishi Karja Mela, which is being organized for the first time in Nepal in concurrence with the 5th National Agriculture Machinery Exhibition. This event will be taking place at Chitwan Expo Centre, Narayangarh, Chitwan from 19 – 22 January 2022 with an objective to bring all the stakeholders of the agriculture ecosystem (farmers, entrepreneurs, Agri–input traders, technology providers, financial institutions &policy makers) in one place.  Under this agreement, Nabil Bank has collaborated with R&D for the ‘National Dialogue on Agriculture Financing’, which is one of the major attractions of the Mela that will facilitate an open and constructive discussion between financial institutions, policy-makers, farmers, and local governments. The discussion will be based on practical experiences which will foster a better understanding in resolving the agri-financing related issues.       Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF Division, Nabil Bank, and Ms. Sunita Nhemaphuki, Chairperson, R&D, Kathmandu have signed the agreement today. Mr. Basnet (Danil) expressed the Bank’s excitement towards collaborating for the ‘National Dialogue on Agri Financing’, which will provide a platform to all stakeholders of agro-industry to discuss the loan application process & procedure of banking institutions, problems faced by farmers, gaps in policies, and views of regulators, which shall further add value in revising the policies required to meet the actual need of the real farmers, entrepreneurs and Agri–input traders.” Likewise, Ms. Nhemhafuki said, “We believe that this collaboration with Nabil Bank will prove to be a milestone to extend financial access to all agriculture sectors. We are confident that this first of its kind mela will change the face of agriculture.” Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 135 branches, 188 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank has entered into an agreement with its existing strategic business partner, R&D Innovative Solution Pvt. Ltd. (R&D) to support the upcoming Krishi Karja Mela, which is being organized for the first time in Nepal in concurrence with the 5th National Agriculture Machinery Exhibition. This event will be taking place at Chitwan Expo Centre, Narayangarh, Chitwan from 19 – 22 January 2022 with an objective to bring all the stakeholders of the agriculture ecosystem (farmers, entrepreneurs, Agri–input traders, technology providers, financial institutions &policy makers) in one place.  Under this agreement, Nabil Bank has collaborated with R&D for the ‘National Dialogue on Agriculture Financing’, which is one of the major attractions of the Mela that will facilitate an open and constructive discussion between financial institutions, policy-makers, farmers, and local governments. The discussion will be based on practical experiences which will foster a better understanding in resolving the agri-financing related issues.       Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF Division, Nabil Bank, and Ms. Sunita Nhemaphuki, Chairperson, R&D, Kathmandu have signed the agreement today. Mr. Basnet (Danil) expressed the Bank’s excitement towards collaborating for the ‘National Dialogue on Agri Financing’, which will provide a platform to all stakeholders of agro-industry to discuss the loan application process & procedure of banking institutions, problems faced by farmers, gaps in policies, and views of regulators, which shall further add value in revising the policies required to meet the actual need of the real farmers, entrepreneurs and Agri–input traders.” Likewise, Ms. Nhemhafuki said, “We believe that this collaboration with Nabil Bank will prove to be a milestone to extend financial access to all agriculture sectors. We are confident that this first of its kind mela will change the face of agriculture.” Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 135 branches, 188 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank has entered into an agreement with its existing strategic business partner, R&D Innovative Solution Pvt. Ltd. (R&D) to support the upcoming Krishi Karja Mela, which is being organized for the first time in Nepal in concurrence with the 5th National Agriculture Machinery Exhibition. This event will be taking place at Chitwan Expo Centre, Narayangarh, Chitwan from 19 – 22 January 2022 with an objective to bring all the stakeholders of the agriculture ecosystem (farmers, entrepreneurs, Agri–input traders, technology providers, financial institutions &policy makers) in one place.  Under this agreement, Nabil Bank has collaborated with R&D for the ‘National Dialogue on Agriculture Financing’, which is one of the major attractions of the Mela that will facilitate an open and constructive discussion between financial institutions, policy-makers, farmers, and local governments. The discussion will be based on practical experiences which will foster a better understanding in resolving the agri-financing related issues.       Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF Division, Nabil Bank, and Ms. Sunita Nhemaphuki, Chairperson, R&D, Kathmandu have signed the agreement today. Mr. Basnet (Danil) expressed the Bank’s excitement towards collaborating for the ‘National Dialogue on Agri Financing’, which will provide a platform to all stakeholders of agro-industry to discuss the loan application process & procedure of banking institutions, problems faced by farmers, gaps in policies, and views of regulators, which shall further add value in revising the policies required to meet the actual need of the real farmers, entrepreneurs and Agri–input traders.” Likewise, Ms. Nhemhafuki said, “We believe that this collaboration with Nabil Bank will prove to be a milestone to extend financial access to all agriculture sectors. We are confident that this first of its kind mela will change the face of agriculture.” Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 135 branches, 188 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. "
2022-01-10,Banks and Financial Institutions Instructed to Follow Stricter Protocols Amidst Risk of New Covid-19 Wave,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/banks-and-financial-institutions-instructed-to-follow-stricter-protocols-amidst-risk-of-new-covid-19-wave-2022-01-10,"In response to the increased risk of new strain infection of Covid-19, Nepal Rastra Bank has issued a set of instructions to banks and financial institutions. A, B, C, and D class financial institutions have been instructed to follow the instructions issued by the government and WHO. The central bank has urged banks and financial institutions to ensure optimum protection and minimization of virus transmission among staff members directly involved in front-line banking services. For this, the central bank has instructed the banks and financial institutions to maintain proper physical distancing while minimizing physical presence as much as possible. The central bank has recommended keeping the ATM booths open for proper ventilation along with necessary sanitization equipment. Lastly, all banks and financial institutions have been instructed to minimize physical gatherings, meetings, seminars, training programs and revert back to virtual conferencing. In response to the increased risk of new strain infection of Covid-19, Nepal Rastra Bank has issued a set of instructions to banks and financial institutions. A, B, C, and D class financial institutions have been instructed to follow the instructions issued by the government and WHO. The central bank has urged banks and financial institutions to ensure optimum protection and minimization of virus transmission among staff members directly involved in front-line banking services. For this, the central bank has instructed the banks and financial institutions to maintain proper physical distancing while minimizing physical presence as much as possible. The central bank has recommended keeping the ATM booths open for proper ventilation along with necessary sanitization equipment. Lastly, all banks and financial institutions have been instructed to minimize physical gatherings, meetings, seminars, training programs and revert back to virtual conferencing. In response to the increased risk of new strain infection of Covid-19, Nepal Rastra Bank has issued a set of instructions to banks and financial institutions. A, B, C, and D class financial institutions have been instructed to follow the instructions issued by the government and WHO. The central bank has urged banks and financial institutions to ensure optimum protection and minimization of virus transmission among staff members directly involved in front-line banking services. For this, the central bank has instructed the banks and financial institutions to maintain proper physical distancing while minimizing physical presence as much as possible. The central bank has recommended keeping the ATM booths open for proper ventilation along with necessary sanitization equipment. Lastly, all banks and financial institutions have been instructed to minimize physical gatherings, meetings, seminars, training programs and revert back to virtual conferencing. "
2022-01-10,"Deposit Collection Spikes in Fourth Week of Poush, Lending Fairly Stable",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-report-four-times-more-deposit-in-fourth-week-of-poush-2022-01-10,"The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Poush 23, 2078, i.e. the last working day of the fourth week. The CD ratio as of this date is 89.68%. The total deposit went up by Rs. 58 billion in the fourth week of Poush, and the figure is at Rs. 4,307 billion. In the third week, this figure had gone up by Rs. 14 billion from the week before that. Rs. 4,209 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 98 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 9 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,108 billion. Rs. 3,994 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 114 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Poush 23, 2078, i.e. the last working day of the fourth week. The CD ratio as of this date is 89.68%. The total deposit went up by Rs. 58 billion in the fourth week of Poush, and the figure is at Rs. 4,307 billion. In the third week, this figure had gone up by Rs. 14 billion from the week before that. Rs. 4,209 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 98 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 9 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,108 billion. Rs. 3,994 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 114 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Poush 23, 2078, i.e. the last working day of the fourth week. The CD ratio as of this date is 89.68%. The total deposit went up by Rs. 58 billion in the fourth week of Poush, and the figure is at Rs. 4,307 billion. In the third week, this figure had gone up by Rs. 14 billion from the week before that. Rs. 4,209 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 98 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 9 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,108 billion. Rs. 3,994 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 114 billion is in foreign currency. "
2022-01-04,"Total Deposit Up Rs. 14B in Third Week of Poush, Lending Up Rs. 11B, CD Ratio at 91.02%",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/total-deposit-up-rs-14b-in-third-week-of-poush-lending-up-rs-11b-cd-ratio-at-9102-2022-01-04,"The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Poush 16, 2078, i.e. the last working day of the third week. The CD ratio as of this date is 91.02%. The total deposit went up by Rs. 14 billion in the third week of Poush, and the figure is at Rs. 4,249 billion. Rs. 4,148 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 101 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 11 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,099 billion. Rs. 3,974 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 125 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Poush 16, 2078, i.e. the last working day of the third week. The CD ratio as of this date is 91.02%. The total deposit went up by Rs. 14 billion in the third week of Poush, and the figure is at Rs. 4,249 billion. Rs. 4,148 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 101 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 11 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,099 billion. Rs. 3,974 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 125 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Poush 16, 2078, i.e. the last working day of the third week. The CD ratio as of this date is 91.02%. The total deposit went up by Rs. 14 billion in the third week of Poush, and the figure is at Rs. 4,249 billion. Rs. 4,148 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 101 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 11 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,099 billion. Rs. 3,974 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 125 billion is in foreign currency. "
2022-01-04,Nabil Bank to provide agro loan to farmers from Sudurpaschim province; signs agreement with different local units under Digo Banking scheme,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-provide-agro-loan-to-farmers-from-sudurpaschim-province-signs-agreement-with-different-local-units-under-digo-banking-scheme-2022-01-04,"Nabil Bank has signed an agreement with Bithadchir Gaupalika of Bajhang and Alital Gaupalika of Dadeldhura district to extend credit facilities to the farmers of the local unit under its Digo Banking scheme. The bank will also be looking forward to conducting events to promote financial literacy among the local farmers and entrepreneurs under this agreement.  The bank under collaboration with National Youth Federation has also organized eight days long financial awareness campaign at Pancheswor gaupalika of Baitadi district and made a commitment to extending affordable loans to the local skilled farmers and entrepreneurs as per the recommendation from the gaupalika, as per the media statement.   Nabil Bank has signed an agreement with Bithadchir Gaupalika of Bajhang and Alital Gaupalika of Dadeldhura district to extend credit facilities to the farmers of the local unit under its Digo Banking scheme. The bank will also be looking forward to conducting events to promote financial literacy among the local farmers and entrepreneurs under this agreement.  The bank under collaboration with National Youth Federation has also organized eight days long financial awareness campaign at Pancheswor gaupalika of Baitadi district and made a commitment to extending affordable loans to the local skilled farmers and entrepreneurs as per the recommendation from the gaupalika, as per the media statement.   Nabil Bank has signed an agreement with Bithadchir Gaupalika of Bajhang and Alital Gaupalika of Dadeldhura district to extend credit facilities to the farmers of the local unit under its Digo Banking scheme. The bank will also be looking forward to conducting events to promote financial literacy among the local farmers and entrepreneurs under this agreement.  The bank under collaboration with National Youth Federation has also organized eight days long financial awareness campaign at Pancheswor gaupalika of Baitadi district and made a commitment to extending affordable loans to the local skilled farmers and entrepreneurs as per the recommendation from the gaupalika, as per the media statement.   "
2021-12-28,Nabil Bank customers can now load funds on Khalti using Nabil SmartBank App,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-customers-can-now-load-funds-on-khalti-using-nabil-smartbank-app-2021-12-28,"Nepal’s Leading online Payment Service Provider (PSP), Khalti, has partnered with Nepal’s Leading Commercial Bank, Nabil Bank Limited, enabling the Bank’s customers to load money to Khalti through the Nabil SmartBank (mobile banking) app.  With the partnership, Nabil bank’s customers across the nation can now make payments through Khalti without worrying about mediums of adding money to the wallet. They can simply open the Nabil SmartBank app and load funds on Khalti which shall be expanded to the Bank-Khalti Account link and other features in near future.  Speaking about the agreement, Khalti’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Binay Khadka shared, “We believe that this partnership will prove to be another milestone for Digital Nepal by providing simple and easy payment services to all Bank and Wallet customers.” Similarly, Nabil Bank’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah expressed his pleasure to have collaborated with Khalti for extending digital payment services to Nabi Bank’s customers. Khalti has become a young, popular and innovative brand in Nepal's fintech industry. Currently, it has more than 2.0 million+ active users throughout the country alongside a 30K+ Agent network. From Khalti, users can Top-Up their phone, TV, pay their internet bill, insurance premiums, Government Revenues, Waste Management Bills, buy domestic flight tickets, and many more. In addition, Khalti also provides various cashback and discounts to its users to help them save their time and money. Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network of 135 branches, 187 ATMs and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank always strives to deliver superior service for enhancing value to its customers. Khalti can be downloaded from Khalti.com/app. Nepal’s Leading online Payment Service Provider (PSP), Khalti, has partnered with Nepal’s Leading Commercial Bank, Nabil Bank Limited, enabling the Bank’s customers to load money to Khalti through the Nabil SmartBank (mobile banking) app.  With the partnership, Nabil bank’s customers across the nation can now make payments through Khalti without worrying about mediums of adding money to the wallet. They can simply open the Nabil SmartBank app and load funds on Khalti which shall be expanded to the Bank-Khalti Account link and other features in near future.  Speaking about the agreement, Khalti’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Binay Khadka shared, “We believe that this partnership will prove to be another milestone for Digital Nepal by providing simple and easy payment services to all Bank and Wallet customers.” Similarly, Nabil Bank’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah expressed his pleasure to have collaborated with Khalti for extending digital payment services to Nabi Bank’s customers. Khalti has become a young, popular and innovative brand in Nepal's fintech industry. Currently, it has more than 2.0 million+ active users throughout the country alongside a 30K+ Agent network. From Khalti, users can Top-Up their phone, TV, pay their internet bill, insurance premiums, Government Revenues, Waste Management Bills, buy domestic flight tickets, and many more. In addition, Khalti also provides various cashback and discounts to its users to help them save their time and money. Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network of 135 branches, 187 ATMs and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank always strives to deliver superior service for enhancing value to its customers. Khalti can be downloaded from Khalti.com/app. Nepal’s Leading online Payment Service Provider (PSP), Khalti, has partnered with Nepal’s Leading Commercial Bank, Nabil Bank Limited, enabling the Bank’s customers to load money to Khalti through the Nabil SmartBank (mobile banking) app.  With the partnership, Nabil bank’s customers across the nation can now make payments through Khalti without worrying about mediums of adding money to the wallet. They can simply open the Nabil SmartBank app and load funds on Khalti which shall be expanded to the Bank-Khalti Account link and other features in near future.  Speaking about the agreement, Khalti’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Binay Khadka shared, “We believe that this partnership will prove to be another milestone for Digital Nepal by providing simple and easy payment services to all Bank and Wallet customers.” Similarly, Nabil Bank’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah expressed his pleasure to have collaborated with Khalti for extending digital payment services to Nabi Bank’s customers. Khalti has become a young, popular and innovative brand in Nepal's fintech industry. Currently, it has more than 2.0 million+ active users throughout the country alongside a 30K+ Agent network. From Khalti, users can Top-Up their phone, TV, pay their internet bill, insurance premiums, Government Revenues, Waste Management Bills, buy domestic flight tickets, and many more. In addition, Khalti also provides various cashback and discounts to its users to help them save their time and money. Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network of 135 branches, 187 ATMs and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank always strives to deliver superior service for enhancing value to its customers. Khalti can be downloaded from Khalti.com/app. "
2021-12-27,"Total Deposit Down Rs. 4 Billion, Lending Up Rs. 3 Billion in Second Week of Poush",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/total-deposit-down-rs-4-billion-lending-up-rs-3-billion-in-second-week-of-poush-2021-12-27,"The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of 09 Poush, i.e. the last working day of the second week of Poush. The CD ratio as of this date is 91.30%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 4 billion in the second week of Poush, and the figure is at Rs. 4,235 billion. Rs. 4,128 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 107 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 3 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,088 billion. Rs. 3,953 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 135 billion is in foreign currency. As the month of Mangsir was approaching its end, the new interest rates profile to be unveiled by banks for Poush was believed to have a determining effect on the nation's liquidity and the capital market. However, commercial banks have chosen to keep the rates stable for Poush. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of 09 Poush, i.e. the last working day of the second week of Poush. The CD ratio as of this date is 91.30%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 4 billion in the second week of Poush, and the figure is at Rs. 4,235 billion. Rs. 4,128 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 107 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 3 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,088 billion. Rs. 3,953 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 135 billion is in foreign currency. As the month of Mangsir was approaching its end, the new interest rates profile to be unveiled by banks for Poush was believed to have a determining effect on the nation's liquidity and the capital market. However, commercial banks have chosen to keep the rates stable for Poush. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of 09 Poush, i.e. the last working day of the second week of Poush. The CD ratio as of this date is 91.30%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 4 billion in the second week of Poush, and the figure is at Rs. 4,235 billion. Rs. 4,128 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 107 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 3 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,088 billion. Rs. 3,953 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 135 billion is in foreign currency. As the month of Mangsir was approaching its end, the new interest rates profile to be unveiled by banks for Poush was believed to have a determining effect on the nation's liquidity and the capital market. However, commercial banks have chosen to keep the rates stable for Poush. "
2021-12-24,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) Calls AGM to Endorse 38% Dividend, Elect BOD, and Raise Authorized Capital",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-nabil-calls-agm-to-endorse-38-dividend-elect-bod-and-raise-authorized-capital-2021-12-24,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has called its 37th AGM on 30th Poush, 2078. The meeting will be held in Nabil Center, Tindhara, Kathmandu, starting at 9: 30 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse a 38% dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. The meeting of the board of directors held on Kartik 16 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 13.84 Arba. 33.6% bonus shares and 4.4% cash dividend (including tax) have been proposed. Furthermore, the AGM will also elect 2 board members from the promoters. There is also an agenda to endorse the decision of raising the company's existing authorized capital to Rs. 19 Arba. Poush 16 is the book closure date. Thus, shareholders maintained before that day are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend this AGM. AGM notice Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has called its 37th AGM on 30th Poush, 2078. The meeting will be held in Nabil Center, Tindhara, Kathmandu, starting at 9: 30 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse a 38% dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. The meeting of the board of directors held on Kartik 16 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 13.84 Arba. 33.6% bonus shares and 4.4% cash dividend (including tax) have been proposed. Furthermore, the AGM will also elect 2 board members from the promoters. There is also an agenda to endorse the decision of raising the company's existing authorized capital to Rs. 19 Arba. Poush 16 is the book closure date. Thus, shareholders maintained before that day are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend this AGM. AGM notice Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has called its 37th AGM on 30th Poush, 2078. The meeting will be held in Nabil Center, Tindhara, Kathmandu, starting at 9: 30 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse a 38% dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. The meeting of the board of directors held on Kartik 16 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 13.84 Arba. 33.6% bonus shares and 4.4% cash dividend (including tax) have been proposed. Furthermore, the AGM will also elect 2 board members from the promoters. There is also an agenda to endorse the decision of raising the company's existing authorized capital to Rs. 19 Arba. Poush 16 is the book closure date. Thus, shareholders maintained before that day are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend this AGM. AGM notice "
2021-12-24,Nabil Bank partners with Khalti; MoBanking customers to load fund easily in their Khalti account,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-partners-with-khalti-mobanking-customers-to-load-fund-easily-in-their-khalti-account-2021-12-24,"Nabil Bank Limited has entered into an agreement with Khalti in order to provide digital payment services to its customers. Under this partnership, Nabil Bank’s customers can now load funds in their Khalti wallets using Nabil SmartBank (mobile banking) app. This subsequently shall enable the customers to make any kinds of digital payments available at Khalti’s platform. Khalti is one of Nepal’s leading mobile wallets, payment gateway & service providers in Nepal. It allows users to pay for a range of services like basic utility payments, mobile top-up, hotel bookings, movie ticketing, domestic flight bookings, event ticketing, and many more. The Bank is pleased to have collaborated with Khalti for extending digital payment services to its customers. With the addition of this feature, the bank is intended and prepared for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank Limited has entered into an agreement with Khalti in order to provide digital payment services to its customers. Under this partnership, Nabil Bank’s customers can now load funds in their Khalti wallets using Nabil SmartBank (mobile banking) app. This subsequently shall enable the customers to make any kinds of digital payments available at Khalti’s platform. Khalti is one of Nepal’s leading mobile wallets, payment gateway & service providers in Nepal. It allows users to pay for a range of services like basic utility payments, mobile top-up, hotel bookings, movie ticketing, domestic flight bookings, event ticketing, and many more. The Bank is pleased to have collaborated with Khalti for extending digital payment services to its customers. With the addition of this feature, the bank is intended and prepared for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank Limited has entered into an agreement with Khalti in order to provide digital payment services to its customers. Under this partnership, Nabil Bank’s customers can now load funds in their Khalti wallets using Nabil SmartBank (mobile banking) app. This subsequently shall enable the customers to make any kinds of digital payments available at Khalti’s platform. Khalti is one of Nepal’s leading mobile wallets, payment gateway & service providers in Nepal. It allows users to pay for a range of services like basic utility payments, mobile top-up, hotel bookings, movie ticketing, domestic flight bookings, event ticketing, and many more. The Bank is pleased to have collaborated with Khalti for extending digital payment services to its customers. With the addition of this feature, the bank is intended and prepared for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. "
2021-12-22,Nabil Bank enters into agreement with Daraz and imark for introduction of Nabil SmartPOS,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-enters-into-agreement-with-daraz-and-imark-for-introduction-of-nabil-smartpos-2021-12-22,"Nabil Bank has entered into a tripartite agreement with Daraz and imark today for the introduction of Nabil SmartPOS, an Android portable payment solution that accepts any payments anytime, anywhere. With Nabil SmartPOS, the Bank has taken a major step forward in terms of enabling digital payment.  Under the agreement, customers shopping through Daraz will now be able to make payments through the enhanced smart features available within the SmartPOS. Daraz shall soon enable delivery to their valued customers through over 100+ Nabil SmartPOS. Similarly, imark has provided 4,000+ Nabil SmartPOS to the Bank, which offers every benefit of a smartphone-like experience combined with secure payment solutions. The Bank is pleased to collaborate with Daraz and imark for such a major technological advancement in the sector of POS. With the addition of Nabil SmartPOS, the bank is intended and prepared for superior digital service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank has entered into a tripartite agreement with Daraz and imark today for the introduction of Nabil SmartPOS, an Android portable payment solution that accepts any payments anytime, anywhere. With Nabil SmartPOS, the Bank has taken a major step forward in terms of enabling digital payment.  Under the agreement, customers shopping through Daraz will now be able to make payments through the enhanced smart features available within the SmartPOS. Daraz shall soon enable delivery to their valued customers through over 100+ Nabil SmartPOS. Similarly, imark has provided 4,000+ Nabil SmartPOS to the Bank, which offers every benefit of a smartphone-like experience combined with secure payment solutions. The Bank is pleased to collaborate with Daraz and imark for such a major technological advancement in the sector of POS. With the addition of Nabil SmartPOS, the bank is intended and prepared for superior digital service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank has entered into a tripartite agreement with Daraz and imark today for the introduction of Nabil SmartPOS, an Android portable payment solution that accepts any payments anytime, anywhere. With Nabil SmartPOS, the Bank has taken a major step forward in terms of enabling digital payment.  Under the agreement, customers shopping through Daraz will now be able to make payments through the enhanced smart features available within the SmartPOS. Daraz shall soon enable delivery to their valued customers through over 100+ Nabil SmartPOS. Similarly, imark has provided 4,000+ Nabil SmartPOS to the Bank, which offers every benefit of a smartphone-like experience combined with secure payment solutions. The Bank is pleased to collaborate with Daraz and imark for such a major technological advancement in the sector of POS. With the addition of Nabil SmartPOS, the bank is intended and prepared for superior digital service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. "
2021-12-17,Nabil Bank and National Youth Federation concludes week-long training at Tila Gaupalika of Jumla,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-national-youth-federation-concludes-week-long-training-at-tila-gaupalika-of-jumla-2021-12-17,"Nabil Bank and National Youth Federation have jointly concluded a seven days entrepreneurship development and financial literacy event for the youths of Tila Gaupalika of Jumla district.  The closing event was also addressed by the chairman of the gaupalika, former minister Mr. Balbahadur Mahat, chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudel, Deputy CEO Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, among others. The event aims to train and empower youths of Jumla to run enterprises of their own by providing skills development and financial management opportunities, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank and National Youth Federation have jointly concluded a seven days entrepreneurship development and financial literacy event for the youths of Tila Gaupalika of Jumla district.  The closing event was also addressed by the chairman of the gaupalika, former minister Mr. Balbahadur Mahat, chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudel, Deputy CEO Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, among others. The event aims to train and empower youths of Jumla to run enterprises of their own by providing skills development and financial management opportunities, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank and National Youth Federation have jointly concluded a seven days entrepreneurship development and financial literacy event for the youths of Tila Gaupalika of Jumla district.  The closing event was also addressed by the chairman of the gaupalika, former minister Mr. Balbahadur Mahat, chairman of the bank Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudel, Deputy CEO Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, among others. The event aims to train and empower youths of Jumla to run enterprises of their own by providing skills development and financial management opportunities, as per the media statement. "
2021-12-15,Commercial Banks Keep Interest Rates Stable: Why This Happened and What It Means,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-keep-interest-rates-stable-why-this-happened-and-what-it-means-2021-12-15,"Commercial Banks have unveiled the interest rates profile for the month of Poush. As a probable effect of the gentlemen agreement done among bankers a few days ago, commercial banks have kept their interest rates profile fairly unchanged. The maximum interest rate on fixed deposits provided by commercial banks is 10.05%, with Standard Chartered Bank as an exception. SCB has only 9.5% as its maximum interest rate on fixed deposits. It is to be noted that most banks had maintained a maximum rate of 10.05% already in the month of Mangsir. Thus, it seems that those that had lower rates have met with other banks to maintain a stable maximum rate of 10.05% for Poush. While this might be a result of the gentlemen agreement, the actual liquidity scenario in the nation's banking system is struggling. Commercial banks have continuously reported a fall in deposits collected each week along with a simultaneous increase in lending. This has resulted in a shortage of liquidity in the banking system. While this problem would be solved by raising interest rates, hence attracting more deposits, raising the rates has a simultaneous negative impact. This translates to higher interest payment for borrowers and businesses, which is conducive to investment and growth. This is a prime reason why the central bank slapped limits on commercial banks from raising their interest rates steeply. The change in interest rates was of great significance to investors in NEPSE, since the rise in interest rates has a negative effect on the capital market. With the banks keeping the rates constant, at least for the upcoming month, it is reasonable to guess that investors have been consoled a bit. As of writing, the secondary market is 13 minutes into today's trading session. The NEPSE index has gained 29.47 points and is at 2,448.32. Commercial Banks have unveiled the interest rates profile for the month of Poush. As a probable effect of the gentlemen agreement done among bankers a few days ago, commercial banks have kept their interest rates profile fairly unchanged. The maximum interest rate on fixed deposits provided by commercial banks is 10.05%, with Standard Chartered Bank as an exception. SCB has only 9.5% as its maximum interest rate on fixed deposits. It is to be noted that most banks had maintained a maximum rate of 10.05% already in the month of Mangsir. Thus, it seems that those that had lower rates have met with other banks to maintain a stable maximum rate of 10.05% for Poush. While this might be a result of the gentlemen agreement, the actual liquidity scenario in the nation's banking system is struggling. Commercial banks have continuously reported a fall in deposits collected each week along with a simultaneous increase in lending. This has resulted in a shortage of liquidity in the banking system. While this problem would be solved by raising interest rates, hence attracting more deposits, raising the rates has a simultaneous negative impact. This translates to higher interest payment for borrowers and businesses, which is conducive to investment and growth. This is a prime reason why the central bank slapped limits on commercial banks from raising their interest rates steeply. The change in interest rates was of great significance to investors in NEPSE, since the rise in interest rates has a negative effect on the capital market. With the banks keeping the rates constant, at least for the upcoming month, it is reasonable to guess that investors have been consoled a bit. As of writing, the secondary market is 13 minutes into today's trading session. The NEPSE index has gained 29.47 points and is at 2,448.32. Commercial Banks have unveiled the interest rates profile for the month of Poush. As a probable effect of the gentlemen agreement done among bankers a few days ago, commercial banks have kept their interest rates profile fairly unchanged. The maximum interest rate on fixed deposits provided by commercial banks is 10.05%, with Standard Chartered Bank as an exception. SCB has only 9.5% as its maximum interest rate on fixed deposits. It is to be noted that most banks had maintained a maximum rate of 10.05% already in the month of Mangsir. Thus, it seems that those that had lower rates have met with other banks to maintain a stable maximum rate of 10.05% for Poush. While this might be a result of the gentlemen agreement, the actual liquidity scenario in the nation's banking system is struggling. Commercial banks have continuously reported a fall in deposits collected each week along with a simultaneous increase in lending. This has resulted in a shortage of liquidity in the banking system. While this problem would be solved by raising interest rates, hence attracting more deposits, raising the rates has a simultaneous negative impact. This translates to higher interest payment for borrowers and businesses, which is conducive to investment and growth. This is a prime reason why the central bank slapped limits on commercial banks from raising their interest rates steeply. The change in interest rates was of great significance to investors in NEPSE, since the rise in interest rates has a negative effect on the capital market. With the banks keeping the rates constant, at least for the upcoming month, it is reasonable to guess that investors have been consoled a bit. As of writing, the secondary market is 13 minutes into today's trading session. The NEPSE index has gained 29.47 points and is at 2,448.32. "
2021-12-15,Nabil Bank calls application for Nabil SSE Fellowship 2022; partners with TUSOM to provide 6 months long mentorship to budding entrepreneurs,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-calls-application-for-nabil-sse-fellowship-2022-partners-with-tusom-to-provide-6-months-long-mentorship-to-budding-entrepreneurs-2021-12-15,"Nabil Bank, in association with TUSOM, has invited applications for Nabil Bank SSE Fellowship 2022 targeting the budding entrepreneurs and professionals who want to cultivate and excel in their business and social venture-related skills. Interested applicants between the age group of 18 and 50 years can submit their application through Nabil Bank’s official website nabilbank.com by Poush 9, 2078 following which the successful applicants will be called for the next stage of selection. Fellows will need to commit their six months during their fellowship where they are required to give some two to three days each week for the intensive mentorship program, as per the media statement.  Nabil Bank, in association with TUSOM, has invited applications for Nabil Bank SSE Fellowship 2022 targeting the budding entrepreneurs and professionals who want to cultivate and excel in their business and social venture-related skills. Interested applicants between the age group of 18 and 50 years can submit their application through Nabil Bank’s official website nabilbank.com by Poush 9, 2078 following which the successful applicants will be called for the next stage of selection. Fellows will need to commit their six months during their fellowship where they are required to give some two to three days each week for the intensive mentorship program, as per the media statement.  Nabil Bank, in association with TUSOM, has invited applications for Nabil Bank SSE Fellowship 2022 targeting the budding entrepreneurs and professionals who want to cultivate and excel in their business and social venture-related skills. Interested applicants between the age group of 18 and 50 years can submit their application through Nabil Bank’s official website nabilbank.com by Poush 9, 2078 following which the successful applicants will be called for the next stage of selection. Fellows will need to commit their six months during their fellowship where they are required to give some two to three days each week for the intensive mentorship program, as per the media statement.  "
2021-12-14,"Total Deposits Went Down Rs. 5 Billion in Third Week of Mangsir, Lending Went Up Rs. 8 Billion",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/total-deposits-went-down-rs-5-billion-in-third-week-of-mangsir-lending-went-up-rs-8-billion-2021-12-14,"The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Mangsir 24, i.e. the last working day of the third week. The CD ratio as of this date is 91.49%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 5 billion in the third week of Mangsir, and the figure is at Rs. 4,221 billion. Rs. 4,108 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 113 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 8 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,077 billion. Rs. 3,923 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 153 billion is in foreign currency. Commercial banks reported a total of 35.31 Arba squeeze in the total deposit collected in Kartik compared to the data reported in Ashwin. On the other side of things, banks have simultaneously been hit by a surge in capital demands from the public and businesses. As the economy restarted its revival from the shutdown, businesses and individuals have started to demand funding from the banks. Commercial banks have reported an increase in total monthly loan forwarding by 36.12 Arba in Kartik. Combining these two scenarios, there has been pressure on the banks to forward loans at a time when deposit funds are drying up. This has resulted in a competitive drive among banks to raise interest rates to attract deposits. Meanwhile, the central bank has retaliated by restricting massive interest rate hikes to save borrowers and businesses from high-interest expenses. The month of Mangsir is on the verge of ending, and the new interest rates profile to be unveiled soon by banks for Poush will have a determining effect on the nation's liquidity and the capital market. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Mangsir 24, i.e. the last working day of the third week. The CD ratio as of this date is 91.49%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 5 billion in the third week of Mangsir, and the figure is at Rs. 4,221 billion. Rs. 4,108 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 113 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 8 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,077 billion. Rs. 3,923 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 153 billion is in foreign currency. Commercial banks reported a total of 35.31 Arba squeeze in the total deposit collected in Kartik compared to the data reported in Ashwin. On the other side of things, banks have simultaneously been hit by a surge in capital demands from the public and businesses. As the economy restarted its revival from the shutdown, businesses and individuals have started to demand funding from the banks. Commercial banks have reported an increase in total monthly loan forwarding by 36.12 Arba in Kartik. Combining these two scenarios, there has been pressure on the banks to forward loans at a time when deposit funds are drying up. This has resulted in a competitive drive among banks to raise interest rates to attract deposits. Meanwhile, the central bank has retaliated by restricting massive interest rate hikes to save borrowers and businesses from high-interest expenses. The month of Mangsir is on the verge of ending, and the new interest rates profile to be unveiled soon by banks for Poush will have a determining effect on the nation's liquidity and the capital market. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Mangsir 24, i.e. the last working day of the third week. The CD ratio as of this date is 91.49%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 5 billion in the third week of Mangsir, and the figure is at Rs. 4,221 billion. Rs. 4,108 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 113 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 8 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,077 billion. Rs. 3,923 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 153 billion is in foreign currency. Commercial banks reported a total of 35.31 Arba squeeze in the total deposit collected in Kartik compared to the data reported in Ashwin. On the other side of things, banks have simultaneously been hit by a surge in capital demands from the public and businesses. As the economy restarted its revival from the shutdown, businesses and individuals have started to demand funding from the banks. Commercial banks have reported an increase in total monthly loan forwarding by 36.12 Arba in Kartik. Combining these two scenarios, there has been pressure on the banks to forward loans at a time when deposit funds are drying up. This has resulted in a competitive drive among banks to raise interest rates to attract deposits. Meanwhile, the central bank has retaliated by restricting massive interest rate hikes to save borrowers and businesses from high-interest expenses. The month of Mangsir is on the verge of ending, and the new interest rates profile to be unveiled soon by banks for Poush will have a determining effect on the nation's liquidity and the capital market. "
2021-12-10,Nabil Bank launches Nabil DigiBank Portal; to offer range of digital banking services via single platform,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-nabil-digibank-portal-to-offer-range-of-digital-banking-services-via-single-platform-2021-12-10,"Nabil Bank has officially launched Nabil DigiBank Portal that offers an array of new online services to its customers through a single window. Through this portal, the Bank has automated its product/service requests so that customers can have a seamless banking experience.  During a launch event organized today, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Nabil Bank’s CEO started off by showcasing the Bank’s journey as the first computerized bank to now evolve into a truly digital bank. The showcase comprised of several milestones that Nabil Bank has created over the last 37 years including the inception of a separate vertical called ‘Nabil DigiBank’, which was set up back in August 2020 to ensure the formulation of a comprehensive digital vision and strategy. Today, the Bank has taken a step towards turning that vision into reality through Nabil DigiBank Portal. Nabil DigiBank Portal offers several online services namely Online Fixed Deposit, Debit/Credit Card Request, Debit Card Replacement, Merchant Onboarding, and Retail/SME Loan Application. The Bank aims to continue adding several other online services in the coming days ahead. The portal can easily be accessed through the Bank’s official website and Nabil SmartBank app (mobile banking). Similarly, Mr. Shah officially announced the launch of two new online services - Online Account Opening with Video Verification (VKYC) and Virtual iCard. With the launch of VKYC, customers will now have a choice to either visit the branch of their choice or complete KYC through video verification upon submitting an online account opening application. If the applicant opts for VKYC then he/she will be asked to appear in front of a live camera to give their introduction or do a set of pre-determined introductory drills. Likewise, Nabil Virtual iCard is a service request embedded within Nabil SmartBank app through which the Bank’s customers can easily apply for a virtual iCard by uploading their PAN and even top-up its balance. The customer’s request is processed online and the virtual card gets issued instantly within the mobile banking app along with the card details (card number, expiry date, CVV). The Virtual iCard can further be used to perform e-commerce transactions (except in INR). Speaking at the event, Mr. Shah said “This is just the beginning of Nabil Bank’s digital journey. Moving forward, we will not only be adding the delivery of more and more of the Bank’s services to the Nabil DigiBank Portal but we will also be adding access to a host of other services of partner institutions like bill payments, travel, food, shopping, etc. Today is the start of building a Digital Ecosystem for us all to surge together ahead.” Nabil Bank has officially launched Nabil DigiBank Portal that offers an array of new online services to its customers through a single window. Through this portal, the Bank has automated its product/service requests so that customers can have a seamless banking experience.  During a launch event organized today, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Nabil Bank’s CEO started off by showcasing the Bank’s journey as the first computerized bank to now evolve into a truly digital bank. The showcase comprised of several milestones that Nabil Bank has created over the last 37 years including the inception of a separate vertical called ‘Nabil DigiBank’, which was set up back in August 2020 to ensure the formulation of a comprehensive digital vision and strategy. Today, the Bank has taken a step towards turning that vision into reality through Nabil DigiBank Portal. Nabil DigiBank Portal offers several online services namely Online Fixed Deposit, Debit/Credit Card Request, Debit Card Replacement, Merchant Onboarding, and Retail/SME Loan Application. The Bank aims to continue adding several other online services in the coming days ahead. The portal can easily be accessed through the Bank’s official website and Nabil SmartBank app (mobile banking). Similarly, Mr. Shah officially announced the launch of two new online services - Online Account Opening with Video Verification (VKYC) and Virtual iCard. With the launch of VKYC, customers will now have a choice to either visit the branch of their choice or complete KYC through video verification upon submitting an online account opening application. If the applicant opts for VKYC then he/she will be asked to appear in front of a live camera to give their introduction or do a set of pre-determined introductory drills. Likewise, Nabil Virtual iCard is a service request embedded within Nabil SmartBank app through which the Bank’s customers can easily apply for a virtual iCard by uploading their PAN and even top-up its balance. The customer’s request is processed online and the virtual card gets issued instantly within the mobile banking app along with the card details (card number, expiry date, CVV). The Virtual iCard can further be used to perform e-commerce transactions (except in INR). Speaking at the event, Mr. Shah said “This is just the beginning of Nabil Bank’s digital journey. Moving forward, we will not only be adding the delivery of more and more of the Bank’s services to the Nabil DigiBank Portal but we will also be adding access to a host of other services of partner institutions like bill payments, travel, food, shopping, etc. Today is the start of building a Digital Ecosystem for us all to surge together ahead.” Nabil Bank has officially launched Nabil DigiBank Portal that offers an array of new online services to its customers through a single window. Through this portal, the Bank has automated its product/service requests so that customers can have a seamless banking experience.  During a launch event organized today, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Nabil Bank’s CEO started off by showcasing the Bank’s journey as the first computerized bank to now evolve into a truly digital bank. The showcase comprised of several milestones that Nabil Bank has created over the last 37 years including the inception of a separate vertical called ‘Nabil DigiBank’, which was set up back in August 2020 to ensure the formulation of a comprehensive digital vision and strategy. Today, the Bank has taken a step towards turning that vision into reality through Nabil DigiBank Portal. Nabil DigiBank Portal offers several online services namely Online Fixed Deposit, Debit/Credit Card Request, Debit Card Replacement, Merchant Onboarding, and Retail/SME Loan Application. The Bank aims to continue adding several other online services in the coming days ahead. The portal can easily be accessed through the Bank’s official website and Nabil SmartBank app (mobile banking). Similarly, Mr. Shah officially announced the launch of two new online services - Online Account Opening with Video Verification (VKYC) and Virtual iCard. With the launch of VKYC, customers will now have a choice to either visit the branch of their choice or complete KYC through video verification upon submitting an online account opening application. If the applicant opts for VKYC then he/she will be asked to appear in front of a live camera to give their introduction or do a set of pre-determined introductory drills. Likewise, Nabil Virtual iCard is a service request embedded within Nabil SmartBank app through which the Bank’s customers can easily apply for a virtual iCard by uploading their PAN and even top-up its balance. The customer’s request is processed online and the virtual card gets issued instantly within the mobile banking app along with the card details (card number, expiry date, CVV). The Virtual iCard can further be used to perform e-commerce transactions (except in INR). Speaking at the event, Mr. Shah said “This is just the beginning of Nabil Bank’s digital journey. Moving forward, we will not only be adding the delivery of more and more of the Bank’s services to the Nabil DigiBank Portal but we will also be adding access to a host of other services of partner institutions like bill payments, travel, food, shopping, etc. Today is the start of building a Digital Ecosystem for us all to surge together ahead.” "
2021-12-06,Rise in Deposit Collection in Third Week of Mangsir Accompanied With Twice As Much Lending,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/rise-in-deposit-collection-in-third-week-of-kartik-accompanies-with-twice-as-much-lending-2021-12-06,"The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Mangsir 17, i.e. the last working day of the third week. The CD ratio as of this date is 91.24%. The total deposit went up by Rs. 7 billion in the first week of Mangsir, and the figure is at Rs. 4,226 billion. Rs. 4,109 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 117 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 14 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,069 billion. Rs. 3,913 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 156 billion is in foreign currency. Commercial banks reported a total of 35.31 Arba squeeze in the total deposit collected in Kartik compared to the data reported in Ashwin. On the other side of things, banks have simultaneously been hit by a surge in capital demands from the public and businesses. As the economy restarted its revival from the shutdown, businesses and individuals have started to demand funding from the banks. Commercial banks have reported an increase in total monthly loan forwarding by 36.12 Arba in Kartik. Combining these two scenarios, there has been pressure on the banks to forward loans at a time when deposit funds are drying up. This has resulted in a competitive drive among banks to raise interest rates to attract deposits. Meanwhile, the central bank has retaliated by restricting massive interest rate hikes to save borrowers and businesses from high-interest expenses. On the other side, there has been speculation of yet another shutdown to be caused by the spread of the Omicron variant. Two cases of the Omicron variant have been detected today. This speculation is immediately followed by concerns over the liquidity scenario that may change in the nation's banking system. During the last two waves, the liquidity was in excess, causing banks to lower interest rates. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Mangsir 17, i.e. the last working day of the third week. The CD ratio as of this date is 91.24%. The total deposit went up by Rs. 7 billion in the first week of Mangsir, and the figure is at Rs. 4,226 billion. Rs. 4,109 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 117 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 14 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,069 billion. Rs. 3,913 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 156 billion is in foreign currency. Commercial banks reported a total of 35.31 Arba squeeze in the total deposit collected in Kartik compared to the data reported in Ashwin. On the other side of things, banks have simultaneously been hit by a surge in capital demands from the public and businesses. As the economy restarted its revival from the shutdown, businesses and individuals have started to demand funding from the banks. Commercial banks have reported an increase in total monthly loan forwarding by 36.12 Arba in Kartik. Combining these two scenarios, there has been pressure on the banks to forward loans at a time when deposit funds are drying up. This has resulted in a competitive drive among banks to raise interest rates to attract deposits. Meanwhile, the central bank has retaliated by restricting massive interest rate hikes to save borrowers and businesses from high-interest expenses. On the other side, there has been speculation of yet another shutdown to be caused by the spread of the Omicron variant. Two cases of the Omicron variant have been detected today. This speculation is immediately followed by concerns over the liquidity scenario that may change in the nation's banking system. During the last two waves, the liquidity was in excess, causing banks to lower interest rates. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Mangsir 17, i.e. the last working day of the third week. The CD ratio as of this date is 91.24%. The total deposit went up by Rs. 7 billion in the first week of Mangsir, and the figure is at Rs. 4,226 billion. Rs. 4,109 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 117 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 14 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,069 billion. Rs. 3,913 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 156 billion is in foreign currency. Commercial banks reported a total of 35.31 Arba squeeze in the total deposit collected in Kartik compared to the data reported in Ashwin. On the other side of things, banks have simultaneously been hit by a surge in capital demands from the public and businesses. As the economy restarted its revival from the shutdown, businesses and individuals have started to demand funding from the banks. Commercial banks have reported an increase in total monthly loan forwarding by 36.12 Arba in Kartik. Combining these two scenarios, there has been pressure on the banks to forward loans at a time when deposit funds are drying up. This has resulted in a competitive drive among banks to raise interest rates to attract deposits. Meanwhile, the central bank has retaliated by restricting massive interest rate hikes to save borrowers and businesses from high-interest expenses. On the other side, there has been speculation of yet another shutdown to be caused by the spread of the Omicron variant. Two cases of the Omicron variant have been detected today. This speculation is immediately followed by concerns over the liquidity scenario that may change in the nation's banking system. During the last two waves, the liquidity was in excess, causing banks to lower interest rates. "
2021-12-06,Nabil Bank to provide agro loan to farmers in Palata Gaupalika in Kalikot; signs agreement with local unit under Digo Banking scheme,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-provide-agro-loan-to-farmers-in-palata-gaupalika-in-kalikot-signs-agreement-with-local-unit-under-digo-banking-scheme-2021-12-06,"Nabil Bank has signed an agreement with Palata Gaupalika of Kalikot district to extend credit facilities to the farmers of the local unit under its Digo Banking scheme.  The MoU was signed between Chief Business Officer of the bank Mr. Ganesh Prasad Awosti and chairman of gaupalika Mr. Laxman Bahadur Bam amid a program. The bank also organized financial awareness campaign at the gaupalika and made a commitment to extend affordable loans to the local skilled farmers and entrepreneurs as per the recommendation from the gaupalika, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has signed an agreement with Palata Gaupalika of Kalikot district to extend credit facilities to the farmers of the local unit under its Digo Banking scheme.  The MoU was signed between Chief Business Officer of the bank Mr. Ganesh Prasad Awosti and chairman of gaupalika Mr. Laxman Bahadur Bam amid a program. The bank also organized financial awareness campaign at the gaupalika and made a commitment to extend affordable loans to the local skilled farmers and entrepreneurs as per the recommendation from the gaupalika, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has signed an agreement with Palata Gaupalika of Kalikot district to extend credit facilities to the farmers of the local unit under its Digo Banking scheme.  The MoU was signed between Chief Business Officer of the bank Mr. Ganesh Prasad Awosti and chairman of gaupalika Mr. Laxman Bahadur Bam amid a program. The bank also organized financial awareness campaign at the gaupalika and made a commitment to extend affordable loans to the local skilled farmers and entrepreneurs as per the recommendation from the gaupalika, as per the media statement. "
2021-11-30,"Weekly Deposit Shrinks Rs. 7 Billion in Commercial Banks, Lending Expands Twice As Much",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/weekly-deposit-shrinks-rs-7-billion-in-commercial-banks-lending-expands-twice-as-much-2021-11-30,"The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Mangsir 10, i.e. the last working day of the second week. The CD ratio as of this date is 90.93%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 7 billion in the second week of Mangsir, and the figure is at Rs. 4,219 billion. Rs. 4,101 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 118 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 14 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,055 billion. Rs. 3,900 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 155 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Mangsir 10, i.e. the last working day of the second week. The CD ratio as of this date is 90.93%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 7 billion in the second week of Mangsir, and the figure is at Rs. 4,219 billion. Rs. 4,101 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 118 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 14 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,055 billion. Rs. 3,900 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 155 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Mangsir 10, i.e. the last working day of the second week. The CD ratio as of this date is 90.93%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 7 billion in the second week of Mangsir, and the figure is at Rs. 4,219 billion. Rs. 4,101 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 118 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 14 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,055 billion. Rs. 3,900 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 155 billion is in foreign currency. "
2021-11-28,Nabil Bank launches Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship in partnership with TUSOM; aims to curate and produce 700 social entrepreneurs each year from all 7 provinces,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-nabil-school-of-social-entrepreneurship-in-partnership-with-tusom-aims-to-curate-and-produce-700-social-entrepreneurs-each-year-from-all-7-provinces-2021-11-28,"Nabil Bank has officially launched Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship (Nabil SSE), a CSR initiative to support, develop and promote social entrepreneurship in Nepal. Nabil SSE was formally announced during a launch program conducted today at Tribhuvan University (TU) in the presence of Prof. Dr. Dharma Kanta Baskota, Vice-Chancellor – TU as the Chief Guest.  Through Nabil SSE, the Bank aims to foster socio-economic transformation by promoting social entrepreneurship within the society based on innovative solutions to long-term social problems. In order to create learning programs under Nabil SSE, the Bank has partnered with the School for Social Entrepreneurs India (SSE India) who will be playing the role of ‘Technical Partner’ to help identify, support, and encourage entrepreneurial capacity amongst people working towards creating social impacts. Nabil SSE will be offering two different programs namely 1) Fellowship Program in Social Entrepreneurship, and 2) Certificate Course in Social Entrepreneurship. The Fellowship Program will be a 6-month long program, which will be conducted in partnership with Tribhuvan University School of Management, Faculty of Management. In order to run the Fellowship Program, the Bank has established Nabil Centre for Social Entrepreneurship (NCSE) within the premises of Tribhuvan University School of Management. By the end of this program, 40 fellows will be completing a 6-month course and 12 months of mentorship, which will equip them to start their own social enterprises with the support of the Nabil SSE team. Similarly, the Bank has partnered with 7 different colleges/universities from every province to run a 3-month Certificate Course for social entrepreneurs. A dedicated learning team will be curating the course with the support of partnering academic institutions. These partnering colleges/universities will be delivering the program, while the central learning team will be playing an oversight role. Nabil SSE plans to enroll 700 participants per year (28 cohorts per year and 25 participants per cohort) across all 7 provinces. During the event, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank shed light on how Nabil SSE intends to provide a strong platform to budding social entrepreneurs who want to create sustainable solutions through their innovative approach to tackle various social issues prevailing in Nepal, thereby creating positive social impacts. Nabil SSE is expecting to receive candidates from all over Nepal, as well as address issues of various marginalized communities and indigenous people. Following the announcement of Nabil SSE, individuals interested to participate in the fellowship program can submit an application by following the link: Nabil SSE Application Form       Nabil Bank has officially launched Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship (Nabil SSE), a CSR initiative to support, develop and promote social entrepreneurship in Nepal. Nabil SSE was formally announced during a launch program conducted today at Tribhuvan University (TU) in the presence of Prof. Dr. Dharma Kanta Baskota, Vice-Chancellor – TU as the Chief Guest.  Through Nabil SSE, the Bank aims to foster socio-economic transformation by promoting social entrepreneurship within the society based on innovative solutions to long-term social problems. In order to create learning programs under Nabil SSE, the Bank has partnered with the School for Social Entrepreneurs India (SSE India) who will be playing the role of ‘Technical Partner’ to help identify, support, and encourage entrepreneurial capacity amongst people working towards creating social impacts. Nabil SSE will be offering two different programs namely 1) Fellowship Program in Social Entrepreneurship, and 2) Certificate Course in Social Entrepreneurship. The Fellowship Program will be a 6-month long program, which will be conducted in partnership with Tribhuvan University School of Management, Faculty of Management. In order to run the Fellowship Program, the Bank has established Nabil Centre for Social Entrepreneurship (NCSE) within the premises of Tribhuvan University School of Management. By the end of this program, 40 fellows will be completing a 6-month course and 12 months of mentorship, which will equip them to start their own social enterprises with the support of the Nabil SSE team. Similarly, the Bank has partnered with 7 different colleges/universities from every province to run a 3-month Certificate Course for social entrepreneurs. A dedicated learning team will be curating the course with the support of partnering academic institutions. These partnering colleges/universities will be delivering the program, while the central learning team will be playing an oversight role. Nabil SSE plans to enroll 700 participants per year (28 cohorts per year and 25 participants per cohort) across all 7 provinces. During the event, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank shed light on how Nabil SSE intends to provide a strong platform to budding social entrepreneurs who want to create sustainable solutions through their innovative approach to tackle various social issues prevailing in Nepal, thereby creating positive social impacts. Nabil SSE is expecting to receive candidates from all over Nepal, as well as address issues of various marginalized communities and indigenous people. Following the announcement of Nabil SSE, individuals interested to participate in the fellowship program can submit an application by following the link: Nabil SSE Application Form       Nabil Bank has officially launched Nabil School of Social Entrepreneurship (Nabil SSE), a CSR initiative to support, develop and promote social entrepreneurship in Nepal. Nabil SSE was formally announced during a launch program conducted today at Tribhuvan University (TU) in the presence of Prof. Dr. Dharma Kanta Baskota, Vice-Chancellor – TU as the Chief Guest.  Through Nabil SSE, the Bank aims to foster socio-economic transformation by promoting social entrepreneurship within the society based on innovative solutions to long-term social problems. In order to create learning programs under Nabil SSE, the Bank has partnered with the School for Social Entrepreneurs India (SSE India) who will be playing the role of ‘Technical Partner’ to help identify, support, and encourage entrepreneurial capacity amongst people working towards creating social impacts. Nabil SSE will be offering two different programs namely 1) Fellowship Program in Social Entrepreneurship, and 2) Certificate Course in Social Entrepreneurship. The Fellowship Program will be a 6-month long program, which will be conducted in partnership with Tribhuvan University School of Management, Faculty of Management. In order to run the Fellowship Program, the Bank has established Nabil Centre for Social Entrepreneurship (NCSE) within the premises of Tribhuvan University School of Management. By the end of this program, 40 fellows will be completing a 6-month course and 12 months of mentorship, which will equip them to start their own social enterprises with the support of the Nabil SSE team. Similarly, the Bank has partnered with 7 different colleges/universities from every province to run a 3-month Certificate Course for social entrepreneurs. A dedicated learning team will be curating the course with the support of partnering academic institutions. These partnering colleges/universities will be delivering the program, while the central learning team will be playing an oversight role. Nabil SSE plans to enroll 700 participants per year (28 cohorts per year and 25 participants per cohort) across all 7 provinces. During the event, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank shed light on how Nabil SSE intends to provide a strong platform to budding social entrepreneurs who want to create sustainable solutions through their innovative approach to tackle various social issues prevailing in Nepal, thereby creating positive social impacts. Nabil SSE is expecting to receive candidates from all over Nepal, as well as address issues of various marginalized communities and indigenous people. Following the announcement of Nabil SSE, individuals interested to participate in the fellowship program can submit an application by following the link: Nabil SSE Application Form       "
2021-11-24,Nabil Bank and Star Remit of South Korea enters into remittance partnership; to make transfer of remittance easier for Nepalese ex-pats in Korea,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-star-remit-of-south-korea-enters-into-remittance-partnership-to-make-transfer-of-remittance-easier-for-nepalese-ex-pats-in-korea-2021-11-24,"Nabil Bank has signed a partnership remittance agreement with STAREMIT Co. Ltd. of South Korea during a program held at Kathmandu. Under this partnership, Nepalese migrant workers in South Korea will be able to securely transfer money to their family, friends, and loved ones based in Nepal. The remittances will be available instantly for cash pickup through 15,000+ Nabil Remit agent locations across all regions of Nepal. The transferred money can also be instantly deposited to any bank account(s) with popular wallet providers in Nepal.  Nabil Bank offers many additional value-added services to its remittance customers, which include saving deposit account with special features for remitters, smart digital banking services for domestic/overseas use, and customized easy loan facilities. Moreover, the Bank offers priority service support for all remittance-related queries through its remittance support center. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank, and Mr. Rudra Sharma, President/Chairman of Staremit Co. Ltd. have signed the agreements. During the event, Mr. Shah and Mr. Sharma addressed a gathering of prospective migrant workers for South Korea. They both highlighted the importance of having sound financial awareness and making informed investment decisions with savings. The program highlighted the opportunities and financial access available in Nepal for returning workers, and how using formal channels when sending funds from abroad is not only safe but also helps provide a foundation of personal growth through sound financial history. Nabil Bank has signed a partnership remittance agreement with STAREMIT Co. Ltd. of South Korea during a program held at Kathmandu. Under this partnership, Nepalese migrant workers in South Korea will be able to securely transfer money to their family, friends, and loved ones based in Nepal. The remittances will be available instantly for cash pickup through 15,000+ Nabil Remit agent locations across all regions of Nepal. The transferred money can also be instantly deposited to any bank account(s) with popular wallet providers in Nepal.  Nabil Bank offers many additional value-added services to its remittance customers, which include saving deposit account with special features for remitters, smart digital banking services for domestic/overseas use, and customized easy loan facilities. Moreover, the Bank offers priority service support for all remittance-related queries through its remittance support center. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank, and Mr. Rudra Sharma, President/Chairman of Staremit Co. Ltd. have signed the agreements. During the event, Mr. Shah and Mr. Sharma addressed a gathering of prospective migrant workers for South Korea. They both highlighted the importance of having sound financial awareness and making informed investment decisions with savings. The program highlighted the opportunities and financial access available in Nepal for returning workers, and how using formal channels when sending funds from abroad is not only safe but also helps provide a foundation of personal growth through sound financial history. Nabil Bank has signed a partnership remittance agreement with STAREMIT Co. Ltd. of South Korea during a program held at Kathmandu. Under this partnership, Nepalese migrant workers in South Korea will be able to securely transfer money to their family, friends, and loved ones based in Nepal. The remittances will be available instantly for cash pickup through 15,000+ Nabil Remit agent locations across all regions of Nepal. The transferred money can also be instantly deposited to any bank account(s) with popular wallet providers in Nepal.  Nabil Bank offers many additional value-added services to its remittance customers, which include saving deposit account with special features for remitters, smart digital banking services for domestic/overseas use, and customized easy loan facilities. Moreover, the Bank offers priority service support for all remittance-related queries through its remittance support center. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank, and Mr. Rudra Sharma, President/Chairman of Staremit Co. Ltd. have signed the agreements. During the event, Mr. Shah and Mr. Sharma addressed a gathering of prospective migrant workers for South Korea. They both highlighted the importance of having sound financial awareness and making informed investment decisions with savings. The program highlighted the opportunities and financial access available in Nepal for returning workers, and how using formal channels when sending funds from abroad is not only safe but also helps provide a foundation of personal growth through sound financial history. "
2021-11-22,"Rs. 7 Billion Less Deposit in First Week of Mangsir, Rs. 7 Billion More Lending",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/deposit-lending-2021-11-22,"The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Mangsir 03, i.e. the last working day of the first week. The CD ratio as of this date is 90.57%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 7 billion in the first week of Mangsir, and the figure is at Rs. 4,226 billion. Rs. 4,105 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 121 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 7 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,041 billion. Rs. 3,885 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 156 billion is in foreign currency. Commercial banks reported a total of 35.31 Arba squeeze in the total deposit collected in Kartik compared to the data reported in Ashwin. On the other side of things, banks have simultaneously been hit by a surge in capital demands from the public and businesses. As the economy restarted its revival from the shutdown, businesses and individuals have started to demand funding from the banks. Commercial banks have reported an increase in total monthly loan forwarding by 36.12 Arba in Kartik. Combining these two scenarios, there has been pressure on the banks to forward loans at a time when deposit funds are drying up. This has resulted in a competitive drive among banks to raise interest rates to attract deposits. Meanwhile, the central bank has retaliated by restricting massive interest rate hikes to save borrowers and businesses from high-interest expenses.   The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Mangsir 03, i.e. the last working day of the first week. The CD ratio as of this date is 90.57%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 7 billion in the first week of Mangsir, and the figure is at Rs. 4,226 billion. Rs. 4,105 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 121 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 7 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,041 billion. Rs. 3,885 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 156 billion is in foreign currency. Commercial banks reported a total of 35.31 Arba squeeze in the total deposit collected in Kartik compared to the data reported in Ashwin. On the other side of things, banks have simultaneously been hit by a surge in capital demands from the public and businesses. As the economy restarted its revival from the shutdown, businesses and individuals have started to demand funding from the banks. Commercial banks have reported an increase in total monthly loan forwarding by 36.12 Arba in Kartik. Combining these two scenarios, there has been pressure on the banks to forward loans at a time when deposit funds are drying up. This has resulted in a competitive drive among banks to raise interest rates to attract deposits. Meanwhile, the central bank has retaliated by restricting massive interest rate hikes to save borrowers and businesses from high-interest expenses.   The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Mangsir 03, i.e. the last working day of the first week. The CD ratio as of this date is 90.57%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 7 billion in the first week of Mangsir, and the figure is at Rs. 4,226 billion. Rs. 4,105 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 121 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 7 billion, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,041 billion. Rs. 3,885 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 156 billion is in foreign currency. Commercial banks reported a total of 35.31 Arba squeeze in the total deposit collected in Kartik compared to the data reported in Ashwin. On the other side of things, banks have simultaneously been hit by a surge in capital demands from the public and businesses. As the economy restarted its revival from the shutdown, businesses and individuals have started to demand funding from the banks. Commercial banks have reported an increase in total monthly loan forwarding by 36.12 Arba in Kartik. Combining these two scenarios, there has been pressure on the banks to forward loans at a time when deposit funds are drying up. This has resulted in a competitive drive among banks to raise interest rates to attract deposits. Meanwhile, the central bank has retaliated by restricting massive interest rate hikes to save borrowers and businesses from high-interest expenses.   "
2021-11-21,Nabil Bank enters into partnership agreement with FHAN; to step in as Official Banking Partner for 18th Handicraft Trade Fair & 16th Craft Competition,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-enters-into-partnership-agreement-with-fhan-to-step-in-as-official-banking-partner-for-18th-handicraft-trade-fair-16th-craft-competition-2021-11-21,"Nabil Bank has entered into a partnership agreement with the Federation of Handicraft Association of Nepal (FHAN) for the “18th Handicraft Trade Fair & 16th Craft Competition” as the “Official Banking Partner”, which is being held from 19th to 21st November 2021 at Hyatt Regency, Kathmandu. The partnership agreement has been signed by Mr. Niraj Basnet Danil, Nabil Bank’s Head-SME & Microfinance, and Mr. Tarak Thapa, FHAN’s Director-General. This partnership between Nabil Bank and FHAN is a continuation of their relationship and has entered into the 3rd series of partnerships in a similar annual event which is also in line with the bank’s initiatives to support ‘Make in Nepal’ products and the bank’s vision of sustainable banking. This partnership reflects the bank’s commitment as a supportive bank for the development of the handicraft sector in Nepal. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Niraj Basnet Danil, Head-SME & MF, Nabil Bank stated “Nabil Bank is proud to be the ‘Official Banking Partner of Handicraft Trade Fair & Craft Competition since the last three years, which promotes the variety of handicraft businesses under one roof. This year, the Bank is hoping to support the pandemic-affected handicraft businesses to revive their businesses with easy access to finance along with job retention of the skilled workers. Nabil Bank has entered into a partnership agreement with the Federation of Handicraft Association of Nepal (FHAN) for the “18th Handicraft Trade Fair & 16th Craft Competition” as the “Official Banking Partner”, which is being held from 19th to 21st November 2021 at Hyatt Regency, Kathmandu. The partnership agreement has been signed by Mr. Niraj Basnet Danil, Nabil Bank’s Head-SME & Microfinance, and Mr. Tarak Thapa, FHAN’s Director-General. This partnership between Nabil Bank and FHAN is a continuation of their relationship and has entered into the 3rd series of partnerships in a similar annual event which is also in line with the bank’s initiatives to support ‘Make in Nepal’ products and the bank’s vision of sustainable banking. This partnership reflects the bank’s commitment as a supportive bank for the development of the handicraft sector in Nepal. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Niraj Basnet Danil, Head-SME & MF, Nabil Bank stated “Nabil Bank is proud to be the ‘Official Banking Partner of Handicraft Trade Fair & Craft Competition since the last three years, which promotes the variety of handicraft businesses under one roof. This year, the Bank is hoping to support the pandemic-affected handicraft businesses to revive their businesses with easy access to finance along with job retention of the skilled workers. Nabil Bank has entered into a partnership agreement with the Federation of Handicraft Association of Nepal (FHAN) for the “18th Handicraft Trade Fair & 16th Craft Competition” as the “Official Banking Partner”, which is being held from 19th to 21st November 2021 at Hyatt Regency, Kathmandu. The partnership agreement has been signed by Mr. Niraj Basnet Danil, Nabil Bank’s Head-SME & Microfinance, and Mr. Tarak Thapa, FHAN’s Director-General. This partnership between Nabil Bank and FHAN is a continuation of their relationship and has entered into the 3rd series of partnerships in a similar annual event which is also in line with the bank’s initiatives to support ‘Make in Nepal’ products and the bank’s vision of sustainable banking. This partnership reflects the bank’s commitment as a supportive bank for the development of the handicraft sector in Nepal. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Niraj Basnet Danil, Head-SME & MF, Nabil Bank stated “Nabil Bank is proud to be the ‘Official Banking Partner of Handicraft Trade Fair & Craft Competition since the last three years, which promotes the variety of handicraft businesses under one roof. This year, the Bank is hoping to support the pandemic-affected handicraft businesses to revive their businesses with easy access to finance along with job retention of the skilled workers. "
2021-11-19,"Economy Battles Liquidity Crisis: Deposit Squeezed Down 35.31 Arba in Kartik, Lending Stretched Up 36.12 Arba",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/economy-battles-liquidity-crisis-deposit-squeezed-down-3531-in-kartik-lending-stretched-up-3612-2021-11-19,"The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Kartik. Commercial banks have reported a total of 35.31 Arba squeeze in the total deposit collected in Kartik compared to the data reported in Ashwin. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has reported the highest squeeze compared to its previous Ashwin figure: a slash of 13.89 Arba. Meanwhile, Himalayan Bank Limited has reported a rise in monthly deposits by 14.6 Arba. On the other side of things, banks have simultaneously been hit by a surge in capital demands from the public and businesses. As the economy restarted its revival from the shutdown, businesses and individuals have started to demand funding from the banks. Commercial banks have reported an increase in total monthly loan forwarding by 36.12 Arba. Himalayan Bank Limited has reported the highest individual rise by 6.07 Arba. Nonetheless, Rastriya Banijya Bank has rather reported a fall of 2.56 Arba in its data. Combining these two scenarios, there has been pressure on the banks to forward loans at a time when deposit funds are drying up. This has resulted in a competitive drive among banks to raise interest rates to attract deposits. Meanwhile, the central bank has retaliated by restricting massive interest rate hikes to save borrowers and businesses from high-interest expenses. During a discussion in the Ministry of Finance with the Governor of NRB, CEOs, and representatives of commercial banks last Friday, Finance Minister Janardan Sharma said that liquidity balance can be achieved by increasing government capital expenditure in the short run and managing foreign resources. He said that the liquidity problem could be solved in the long run only by mobilizing capital in the manufacturing sector. ""As soon as capital is mobilized in the manufacturing sector, many problems will be solved,"" he said, urging banks to ""tighten lending to unproductive sectors"". ""We have tightened some imports now. Banks should also increase restriction in the same way,"" Sharma said. During the discussion, Finance Secretary Madhu Kumar Marasini clarified that liquidity will not be reduced by transferring local level funds to commercial banks as the banks have said. ""Money doesn't go all at once. There's not as much money as you say,"" Marasini said. Similarly, Chairman of Nepal Bankers Association and CEO of ADBL Anil Kumar Upadhyaya suggested that the lack of liquidity in the market could be solved by increasing the capital expenditure of the government. He also said that the liquidity problem would be solved immediately if arrangements were made including Hundi control, a speedy introduction of foreign loans or grants, and keeping 100 Arba of the funds of local level and corporations in commercial banks. Similarly, Nabil Bank CEO Anil Shah stressed the need to increase foreign exchange reserves by stopping the import of non-essential items. He suggested that the import of chocolate and other commodities should be stopped. The CD ratio as of Kartik is 90.15. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Kartik. Commercial banks have reported a total of 35.31 Arba squeeze in the total deposit collected in Kartik compared to the data reported in Ashwin. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has reported the highest squeeze compared to its previous Ashwin figure: a slash of 13.89 Arba. Meanwhile, Himalayan Bank Limited has reported a rise in monthly deposits by 14.6 Arba. On the other side of things, banks have simultaneously been hit by a surge in capital demands from the public and businesses. As the economy restarted its revival from the shutdown, businesses and individuals have started to demand funding from the banks. Commercial banks have reported an increase in total monthly loan forwarding by 36.12 Arba. Himalayan Bank Limited has reported the highest individual rise by 6.07 Arba. Nonetheless, Rastriya Banijya Bank has rather reported a fall of 2.56 Arba in its data. Combining these two scenarios, there has been pressure on the banks to forward loans at a time when deposit funds are drying up. This has resulted in a competitive drive among banks to raise interest rates to attract deposits. Meanwhile, the central bank has retaliated by restricting massive interest rate hikes to save borrowers and businesses from high-interest expenses. During a discussion in the Ministry of Finance with the Governor of NRB, CEOs, and representatives of commercial banks last Friday, Finance Minister Janardan Sharma said that liquidity balance can be achieved by increasing government capital expenditure in the short run and managing foreign resources. He said that the liquidity problem could be solved in the long run only by mobilizing capital in the manufacturing sector. ""As soon as capital is mobilized in the manufacturing sector, many problems will be solved,"" he said, urging banks to ""tighten lending to unproductive sectors"". ""We have tightened some imports now. Banks should also increase restriction in the same way,"" Sharma said. During the discussion, Finance Secretary Madhu Kumar Marasini clarified that liquidity will not be reduced by transferring local level funds to commercial banks as the banks have said. ""Money doesn't go all at once. There's not as much money as you say,"" Marasini said. Similarly, Chairman of Nepal Bankers Association and CEO of ADBL Anil Kumar Upadhyaya suggested that the lack of liquidity in the market could be solved by increasing the capital expenditure of the government. He also said that the liquidity problem would be solved immediately if arrangements were made including Hundi control, a speedy introduction of foreign loans or grants, and keeping 100 Arba of the funds of local level and corporations in commercial banks. Similarly, Nabil Bank CEO Anil Shah stressed the need to increase foreign exchange reserves by stopping the import of non-essential items. He suggested that the import of chocolate and other commodities should be stopped. The CD ratio as of Kartik is 90.15. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Kartik. Commercial banks have reported a total of 35.31 Arba squeeze in the total deposit collected in Kartik compared to the data reported in Ashwin. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has reported the highest squeeze compared to its previous Ashwin figure: a slash of 13.89 Arba. Meanwhile, Himalayan Bank Limited has reported a rise in monthly deposits by 14.6 Arba. On the other side of things, banks have simultaneously been hit by a surge in capital demands from the public and businesses. As the economy restarted its revival from the shutdown, businesses and individuals have started to demand funding from the banks. Commercial banks have reported an increase in total monthly loan forwarding by 36.12 Arba. Himalayan Bank Limited has reported the highest individual rise by 6.07 Arba. Nonetheless, Rastriya Banijya Bank has rather reported a fall of 2.56 Arba in its data. Combining these two scenarios, there has been pressure on the banks to forward loans at a time when deposit funds are drying up. This has resulted in a competitive drive among banks to raise interest rates to attract deposits. Meanwhile, the central bank has retaliated by restricting massive interest rate hikes to save borrowers and businesses from high-interest expenses. During a discussion in the Ministry of Finance with the Governor of NRB, CEOs, and representatives of commercial banks last Friday, Finance Minister Janardan Sharma said that liquidity balance can be achieved by increasing government capital expenditure in the short run and managing foreign resources. He said that the liquidity problem could be solved in the long run only by mobilizing capital in the manufacturing sector. ""As soon as capital is mobilized in the manufacturing sector, many problems will be solved,"" he said, urging banks to ""tighten lending to unproductive sectors"". ""We have tightened some imports now. Banks should also increase restriction in the same way,"" Sharma said. During the discussion, Finance Secretary Madhu Kumar Marasini clarified that liquidity will not be reduced by transferring local level funds to commercial banks as the banks have said. ""Money doesn't go all at once. There's not as much money as you say,"" Marasini said. Similarly, Chairman of Nepal Bankers Association and CEO of ADBL Anil Kumar Upadhyaya suggested that the lack of liquidity in the market could be solved by increasing the capital expenditure of the government. He also said that the liquidity problem would be solved immediately if arrangements were made including Hundi control, a speedy introduction of foreign loans or grants, and keeping 100 Arba of the funds of local level and corporations in commercial banks. Similarly, Nabil Bank CEO Anil Shah stressed the need to increase foreign exchange reserves by stopping the import of non-essential items. He suggested that the import of chocolate and other commodities should be stopped. The CD ratio as of Kartik is 90.15. "
2021-11-19,Nabil Bank launches Nabil Xtra Fixed Deposit account; to provide monthly interest for its depositors,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-nabil-xtra-fixed-deposit-account-to-provide-monthly-interest-for-its-depositors-2021-11-19,"Nabil Bank has launched the Xtra Benefit FD account to provide additional benefits for its account holders.  Customers can now receive monthly interest for their deposit with this account where the bank has not set any minimum balance requirement, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 135 branches, 188 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 Nabil remit agents under its network. Nabil Bank has launched the Xtra Benefit FD account to provide additional benefits for its account holders.  Customers can now receive monthly interest for their deposit with this account where the bank has not set any minimum balance requirement, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 135 branches, 188 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 Nabil remit agents under its network. Nabil Bank has launched the Xtra Benefit FD account to provide additional benefits for its account holders.  Customers can now receive monthly interest for their deposit with this account where the bank has not set any minimum balance requirement, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 135 branches, 188 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 Nabil remit agents under its network. "
2021-11-18,Nabil Bank stands as the Largest Tax Payer Bank in FY 2076-77; makes tax payment of Rs 1.66 arba,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-stands-as-the-largest-tax-payer-bank-in-fy-2076-77-makes-tax-payment-of-rs-166-arba-2021-11-18,"Among all the Banks and financial institutions in Nepal, Nabil Bank has stood as the highest taxpayer in FY 2076/77 by depositing a Corporate Tax of 1,666 million. Over the last ten years, this is the sixth time for Nabil Bank to be the highest taxpayer bank. Nabil feels proud for making the contribution to the government on its broad mission of Nation Building Mechanism through its activities primarily focused on business proliferation, employment creation, and contribution to state coffer in the form of tax. Nabil has pioneered many banking activities in the country which has not only played a catalytic role in life lining the economy but also paved the way for their further growth and broader reach to the public for their need for better livelihood.  Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 119 branches, 189 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Among all the Banks and financial institutions in Nepal, Nabil Bank has stood as the highest taxpayer in FY 2076/77 by depositing a Corporate Tax of 1,666 million. Over the last ten years, this is the sixth time for Nabil Bank to be the highest taxpayer bank. Nabil feels proud for making the contribution to the government on its broad mission of Nation Building Mechanism through its activities primarily focused on business proliferation, employment creation, and contribution to state coffer in the form of tax. Nabil has pioneered many banking activities in the country which has not only played a catalytic role in life lining the economy but also paved the way for their further growth and broader reach to the public for their need for better livelihood.  Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 119 branches, 189 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Among all the Banks and financial institutions in Nepal, Nabil Bank has stood as the highest taxpayer in FY 2076/77 by depositing a Corporate Tax of 1,666 million. Over the last ten years, this is the sixth time for Nabil Bank to be the highest taxpayer bank. Nabil feels proud for making the contribution to the government on its broad mission of Nation Building Mechanism through its activities primarily focused on business proliferation, employment creation, and contribution to state coffer in the form of tax. Nabil has pioneered many banking activities in the country which has not only played a catalytic role in life lining the economy but also paved the way for their further growth and broader reach to the public for their need for better livelihood.  Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 119 branches, 189 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. "
2021-11-17,"New Working Committee of Nepal Bankers' Association Hold Meeting With Governor, Give Suggestions on Monetary Policy Review",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/new-working-committee-of-nepal-bankers-association-hold-meeting-with-governor-give-suggestions-on-monetary-policy-review-2021-11-17,"Newly appointed office bearers and former presidents of the Nepal Bankers' Association held a meeting program with Governor Maha Prasad Adhikari. The program was attended by Deputy Governors, Executive Directors, and other senior officials of NRB and members of the new working committee on behalf of the association. The newly appointed president of the association, Mr. Anil Kumar Upadhyaya, expressed his commitment to play a role in the financial governance, empowerment, and growth of the association, and hoped to receive guidance from the central bank in the days to come. In addition, Mr. Upadhyay expressed his heartfelt congratulations and best wishes for a successful tenure as the newly concluded SAARCFINANCE Governors’ Group Meeting has elected Mr. Governor as the Chairman of SAARCFINANCE. He hoped that during the tenure of the Governor, there would be mutual cooperation and understanding between SAARCFINANCE Governors on common issues in the economic and financial sectors. On the occasion of the meeting, in view of the first quarterly review of the monetary policy, the Chairman presented suggestions on behalf of the association. Mr. Governor congratulated all the office bearers including the newly elected Chairman and wished them a successful tenure. Referring to the recent high credit growth, the Governor urged the banks to exercise restraint. Assuring that the policy/guidelines to be issued by Nepal Rastra Bank will be discussed with the stakeholders, he also assured that the suggestions submitted for the first quarterly review will be discussed internally and appropriate suggestions will be implemented. These are the suggestions made by the Nepal Bankers' Association:

(1) Adopting some flexibility on the issues of CD Ratio, Liquidity Ratio, CRR, etc., keeping in view the recent liquidity pressure. (2) To review the arrangements and formulas of interest rate spread, service fee, and base rate. (3) To adopt some flexibility in the limits of investment in the directed sector. (4) To make appropriate arrangements for the issuance of financial instruments like SME Bond, Convertible Debenture, Perpetual Debenture, etc. (5) To review the interest rate spread provided on refinancing. (6) To make arrangements for investing in deposits in Indian banks to earn interest. (7) To make appropriate policy arrangements for the establishment of Fintech companies as subsidiaries in order to encourage digital banking. (8) If banks provide financial assistance for the promotion of financial literacy and banking, the banks should be allowed to include the expenses under their corporate social responsibility. Newly appointed office bearers and former presidents of the Nepal Bankers' Association held a meeting program with Governor Maha Prasad Adhikari. The program was attended by Deputy Governors, Executive Directors, and other senior officials of NRB and members of the new working committee on behalf of the association. The newly appointed president of the association, Mr. Anil Kumar Upadhyaya, expressed his commitment to play a role in the financial governance, empowerment, and growth of the association, and hoped to receive guidance from the central bank in the days to come. In addition, Mr. Upadhyay expressed his heartfelt congratulations and best wishes for a successful tenure as the newly concluded SAARCFINANCE Governors’ Group Meeting has elected Mr. Governor as the Chairman of SAARCFINANCE. He hoped that during the tenure of the Governor, there would be mutual cooperation and understanding between SAARCFINANCE Governors on common issues in the economic and financial sectors. On the occasion of the meeting, in view of the first quarterly review of the monetary policy, the Chairman presented suggestions on behalf of the association. Mr. Governor congratulated all the office bearers including the newly elected Chairman and wished them a successful tenure. Referring to the recent high credit growth, the Governor urged the banks to exercise restraint. Assuring that the policy/guidelines to be issued by Nepal Rastra Bank will be discussed with the stakeholders, he also assured that the suggestions submitted for the first quarterly review will be discussed internally and appropriate suggestions will be implemented. These are the suggestions made by the Nepal Bankers' Association:

(1) Adopting some flexibility on the issues of CD Ratio, Liquidity Ratio, CRR, etc., keeping in view the recent liquidity pressure. (2) To review the arrangements and formulas of interest rate spread, service fee, and base rate. (3) To adopt some flexibility in the limits of investment in the directed sector. (4) To make appropriate arrangements for the issuance of financial instruments like SME Bond, Convertible Debenture, Perpetual Debenture, etc. (5) To review the interest rate spread provided on refinancing. (6) To make arrangements for investing in deposits in Indian banks to earn interest. (7) To make appropriate policy arrangements for the establishment of Fintech companies as subsidiaries in order to encourage digital banking. (8) If banks provide financial assistance for the promotion of financial literacy and banking, the banks should be allowed to include the expenses under their corporate social responsibility. Newly appointed office bearers and former presidents of the Nepal Bankers' Association held a meeting program with Governor Maha Prasad Adhikari. The program was attended by Deputy Governors, Executive Directors, and other senior officials of NRB and members of the new working committee on behalf of the association. The newly appointed president of the association, Mr. Anil Kumar Upadhyaya, expressed his commitment to play a role in the financial governance, empowerment, and growth of the association, and hoped to receive guidance from the central bank in the days to come. In addition, Mr. Upadhyay expressed his heartfelt congratulations and best wishes for a successful tenure as the newly concluded SAARCFINANCE Governors’ Group Meeting has elected Mr. Governor as the Chairman of SAARCFINANCE. He hoped that during the tenure of the Governor, there would be mutual cooperation and understanding between SAARCFINANCE Governors on common issues in the economic and financial sectors. On the occasion of the meeting, in view of the first quarterly review of the monetary policy, the Chairman presented suggestions on behalf of the association. Mr. Governor congratulated all the office bearers including the newly elected Chairman and wished them a successful tenure. Referring to the recent high credit growth, the Governor urged the banks to exercise restraint. Assuring that the policy/guidelines to be issued by Nepal Rastra Bank will be discussed with the stakeholders, he also assured that the suggestions submitted for the first quarterly review will be discussed internally and appropriate suggestions will be implemented. These are the suggestions made by the Nepal Bankers' Association:

(1) Adopting some flexibility on the issues of CD Ratio, Liquidity Ratio, CRR, etc., keeping in view the recent liquidity pressure. (2) To review the arrangements and formulas of interest rate spread, service fee, and base rate. (3) To adopt some flexibility in the limits of investment in the directed sector. (4) To make appropriate arrangements for the issuance of financial instruments like SME Bond, Convertible Debenture, Perpetual Debenture, etc. (5) To review the interest rate spread provided on refinancing. (6) To make arrangements for investing in deposits in Indian banks to earn interest. (7) To make appropriate policy arrangements for the establishment of Fintech companies as subsidiaries in order to encourage digital banking. (8) If banks provide financial assistance for the promotion of financial literacy and banking, the banks should be allowed to include the expenses under their corporate social responsibility. "
2021-11-17,Nabil Bank inks agreement of subsidized loan facility with Darma Gaupalika of Salyan; to take financial literacy and subsidized loan to skilled youths in the local unit,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inks-agreement-of-subsidized-loan-facility-with-darma-gaupalika-of-salyan-to-take-financial-literacy-and-subsidized-loan-to-skilled-youths-in-the-local-unit-2021-11-17,"Nabil Bank and Darma Gaupalika of Salyan have inked an agreement to promote entrepreneurship and take lessons of financial literacy among the youths in the local unit.  The agreement for the same was signed between the head of Nabil Digo Banking Mr. Lila Prasad Ojha, and chairman of gaupalika Mr. Nim Bahadur K.C. amid a program. Under the agreement, the bank will facilitate financial literacy and entrepreneurship development training for the youths of the local unit who can then approach the bank to receive subsidized credit facilities for their business venture, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank and Darma Gaupalika of Salyan have inked an agreement to promote entrepreneurship and take lessons of financial literacy among the youths in the local unit.  The agreement for the same was signed between the head of Nabil Digo Banking Mr. Lila Prasad Ojha, and chairman of gaupalika Mr. Nim Bahadur K.C. amid a program. Under the agreement, the bank will facilitate financial literacy and entrepreneurship development training for the youths of the local unit who can then approach the bank to receive subsidized credit facilities for their business venture, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank and Darma Gaupalika of Salyan have inked an agreement to promote entrepreneurship and take lessons of financial literacy among the youths in the local unit.  The agreement for the same was signed between the head of Nabil Digo Banking Mr. Lila Prasad Ojha, and chairman of gaupalika Mr. Nim Bahadur K.C. amid a program. Under the agreement, the bank will facilitate financial literacy and entrepreneurship development training for the youths of the local unit who can then approach the bank to receive subsidized credit facilities for their business venture, as per the media statement. "
2021-11-16,"Commercial Banks Can Only Provide Upto 10.05% on Fixed Deposits, Rates of Finance Companies and Development Banks Also Capped Slightly Higher",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-can-only-provide-1005-on-fixed-deposits-rates-of-finance-companies-and-development-banks-also-capped-slightly-higher-2021-11-16,"Banks and financial institutions have unveiled their interest rates for the month of Mangsir. While the banking economy is struggling to attract enough deposits for loan forwarding, Nepal Rastra Bank has further tightened the interest rate raising provisions. Previously, banks could only raise their previous interest rates by 10%. Modifying the rule, NRB issued a directive that a bank will be allowed to increase the interest rate by only 10 percent of the average interest rate of all the commercial banks. The same rule applies to development banks and finance companies, according to their own sector. Pertaining to the directive, it seems that most commercial banks have raised their rates to the maximum allowed interest rate of 10.05% on fixed deposits. In Kartik, the interest yield on fixed deposits of most commercial banks stood at 9.36%, with some banks only paying 8%. The average interest rate on fixed deposits published by banks last month was 9.13. Thus, when the average interest rate is increased by 10 percent, it becomes 10.05%, hence the new rate unveiled by most banks today. Mega Bank has 9.96% as its highest interest rate and Standard Chartered Bank has 9.5%. Rastriya Banijya Bank, which is fully government-owned, has a maximum interest rate of 9.11%. Intriguingly, Nepal Credit & Commerce Bank Limited (NCCB) will provide 8.75% on ordinary savings scheme, under the heading ""NCC Silver Saving Account."" Meanwhile, most development banks have kept 10.25% as the maximum interest rate on fixed deposits (individuals) for the month of Mangsir. However, Narayani Development Bank has claimed to provide a maximum of 10.3% interest rate on FDs and Sindhu Bikas Bank has claimed of providing 10.38%. In contrast, the interest rate on fixed deposits given by finance companies is capped at 10.35%. Banks and financial institutions have unveiled their interest rates for the month of Mangsir. While the banking economy is struggling to attract enough deposits for loan forwarding, Nepal Rastra Bank has further tightened the interest rate raising provisions. Previously, banks could only raise their previous interest rates by 10%. Modifying the rule, NRB issued a directive that a bank will be allowed to increase the interest rate by only 10 percent of the average interest rate of all the commercial banks. The same rule applies to development banks and finance companies, according to their own sector. Pertaining to the directive, it seems that most commercial banks have raised their rates to the maximum allowed interest rate of 10.05% on fixed deposits. In Kartik, the interest yield on fixed deposits of most commercial banks stood at 9.36%, with some banks only paying 8%. The average interest rate on fixed deposits published by banks last month was 9.13. Thus, when the average interest rate is increased by 10 percent, it becomes 10.05%, hence the new rate unveiled by most banks today. Mega Bank has 9.96% as its highest interest rate and Standard Chartered Bank has 9.5%. Rastriya Banijya Bank, which is fully government-owned, has a maximum interest rate of 9.11%. Intriguingly, Nepal Credit & Commerce Bank Limited (NCCB) will provide 8.75% on ordinary savings scheme, under the heading ""NCC Silver Saving Account."" Meanwhile, most development banks have kept 10.25% as the maximum interest rate on fixed deposits (individuals) for the month of Mangsir. However, Narayani Development Bank has claimed to provide a maximum of 10.3% interest rate on FDs and Sindhu Bikas Bank has claimed of providing 10.38%. In contrast, the interest rate on fixed deposits given by finance companies is capped at 10.35%. Banks and financial institutions have unveiled their interest rates for the month of Mangsir. While the banking economy is struggling to attract enough deposits for loan forwarding, Nepal Rastra Bank has further tightened the interest rate raising provisions. Previously, banks could only raise their previous interest rates by 10%. Modifying the rule, NRB issued a directive that a bank will be allowed to increase the interest rate by only 10 percent of the average interest rate of all the commercial banks. The same rule applies to development banks and finance companies, according to their own sector. Pertaining to the directive, it seems that most commercial banks have raised their rates to the maximum allowed interest rate of 10.05% on fixed deposits. In Kartik, the interest yield on fixed deposits of most commercial banks stood at 9.36%, with some banks only paying 8%. The average interest rate on fixed deposits published by banks last month was 9.13. Thus, when the average interest rate is increased by 10 percent, it becomes 10.05%, hence the new rate unveiled by most banks today. Mega Bank has 9.96% as its highest interest rate and Standard Chartered Bank has 9.5%. Rastriya Banijya Bank, which is fully government-owned, has a maximum interest rate of 9.11%. Intriguingly, Nepal Credit & Commerce Bank Limited (NCCB) will provide 8.75% on ordinary savings scheme, under the heading ""NCC Silver Saving Account."" Meanwhile, most development banks have kept 10.25% as the maximum interest rate on fixed deposits (individuals) for the month of Mangsir. However, Narayani Development Bank has claimed to provide a maximum of 10.3% interest rate on FDs and Sindhu Bikas Bank has claimed of providing 10.38%. In contrast, the interest rate on fixed deposits given by finance companies is capped at 10.35%. "
2021-11-16,Nabil Bank inks agreement of subsidized loan facility with National Youth Council and Tila Gaupalika of Jumla,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inks-agreement-of-subsidized-loan-facility-with-national-youth-council-and-tila-gaupalika-of-jumla-2021-11-16,"Nabil Bank, National Youth Council, and Tila Gaupalika of Jumla have inked a tripartite agreement to promote entrepreneurship and take lessons of financial literacy among the youths in the local unit.   The agreement for the same was signed between the head of Nabil Digo Banking Mr. Lila Prasad Ojha, Executive head of the council Dr. Baburam Dhungana, chair of gaupalika Mr. Ratan Lal Yogi amid a program. Under the agreement, National Youth Council will conduct entrepreneurship development training at the local unit who can then approach the bank to receive a subsidized credit facility for their business venture, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank, National Youth Council, and Tila Gaupalika of Jumla have inked a tripartite agreement to promote entrepreneurship and take lessons of financial literacy among the youths in the local unit.   The agreement for the same was signed between the head of Nabil Digo Banking Mr. Lila Prasad Ojha, Executive head of the council Dr. Baburam Dhungana, chair of gaupalika Mr. Ratan Lal Yogi amid a program. Under the agreement, National Youth Council will conduct entrepreneurship development training at the local unit who can then approach the bank to receive a subsidized credit facility for their business venture, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank, National Youth Council, and Tila Gaupalika of Jumla have inked a tripartite agreement to promote entrepreneurship and take lessons of financial literacy among the youths in the local unit.   The agreement for the same was signed between the head of Nabil Digo Banking Mr. Lila Prasad Ojha, Executive head of the council Dr. Baburam Dhungana, chair of gaupalika Mr. Ratan Lal Yogi amid a program. Under the agreement, National Youth Council will conduct entrepreneurship development training at the local unit who can then approach the bank to receive a subsidized credit facility for their business venture, as per the media statement. "
2021-11-15,The Issues I Have With NRs. 19 Crores Worth of Banking Credit Fraud,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/the-issues-i-have-with-nrs-19-crores-worth-of-banking-credit-fraud-2021-11-15,"The author claims sole credit and responsibility for the opinions presented in this article. This article was submitted by a guest writer (navigate to the bottom for details). The Nepalese banking sector came to know about a major event of banking credit fraud of NRs. 19 crores at one of the reputed A-Class banks last week. The fraud was related to fake documents of land ownership, mortgage, and rokka. As per various news articles published on reliable media sources, the masterminds of the fraud game are under investigation (custody). An engineer who was involved in the evaluation of collateral has been taken into custody, along with a bank staff (Junior Assistant) deputed at Malpot Office. This event has once again triggered fear and discussion among all levels of personnel involved in the banking industry. It has been reported in the news that the related Bank has already made the borrower settle the loan after getting to know that the loan was disbursed against fake collateral and fake mortgage documents. This is a praise-worthy task done by the bank's management that has safe-guarded the sweat and toil of the general people in time. However, it is still unknown whether the bank has informed government authorities regarding the people involved in the production of such fake security documents. It is still not up to light whether the bank reported complaints to the Police or other concerned authority against the related borrower as the production of fake governmental seals and documents is a critical crime against the state. It has been reported that the issue came to light only after some months when the reputed singer and owner of the property filed complaints at CIB. Now a simple question arises in the mind of an honest citizen: is only settling the loan adequate for a serious crime involving the production of fake government documents? For an instance, bankers regularly torture innocent account holders for KYC, Customer Due Diligence, and related terminologies of AML and CFT at deposit/ withdrawal of a few thousands of rupees in accounts and file Suspicious Transactions Report against money laundering. But isn’t it a serious issue if they have done nothing in case of credit fraud of crores of rupees involving fake governmental documents, but rather tried to conceal the issue after settlement of the loan? The silent settlement of the issue puts thousands of innocent bankers at risk of being trapped by ill-minded people and may encourage wrong-doers to dig a wide hole in the banking system- ultimately risking the integrity and trust of the financial system. There is no online way of checking and tracking mortgage deeds and rokka paper at the Malpot Office in Nepal. Even to get a copy of one's own land ownership documents, one has to route oneself with “agents” around malpot offices and waste thousands of rupees. Multiple studies and reports published by organizations working on governance have already revealed Malpot offices being negatively reputed as corruption centers. Had there been an online way of tracking authenticity available to banks about whether a mortgage deed/Rokka of the property was legally registered on the respective Malpot office, no one could easily fake mortgage and rokka letters issued by Malpot Office. The same type of online tracking system needs to be implemented in the case of “Pragyanpatra” to check its reliability and originality to curb illegal money transfers outside the national border. The association of evaluators has already gone on strike against the imprisonment of the valuator involved in the valuation of the property related to the case. However, no one has even uttered a word of public sympathy for a Junior Level bank staff caught by CIB for investigation. If the top officials of the banks already knew about the counterfeit Mortgage Documents and settled the credit transaction, how does it sound just to only have a junior-level bank staff being in police custody for investigation purposes? The related staff irrespective of hierarchy- needs to be punished if found guilty, acting irresponsibly, and being involved with fraudsters. However, does it make any sense to imprison only the lowest level staff as the approval and disbursement process of a loan of Rs. 19 crores encompasses multiple levels of checks including the documents being duly scrutinized by various levels of risk and legal officers? In a similar type of fraud at another bank some years ago, the banking fraternity was raged when one of the CEO was taken under police custody. However, we can now observe- in the case of lower-level bank staff, queer silence exists everywhere, almost as if it is an ambush formed by fraudsters to honey trap the bank for credit fraud. Upon review of reliable news on reputed media, the matter is clear and requires no further explanations: the borrower of the case has forged fake documents. And if any staff of the bank is not involved in the scam and not associated with fraudsters, the victimized staff must be compensated against reputational damage. The life and career of the concerned staff, if found innocent, should not be made a scapegoat to save other culprits of the case. The truth of the case will be revealed sooner or later after the completion of the investigation. However, it is too pathetic to be realized by a banker that- had there been any type of attacks either physical or reputational on other professionals, the situation would have been different. Protest and defense by related associations/ unions in writing would be staged. But in the event of a fraud scheme of crores of rupees, the related bank staff unions/ federations are silent. Not even a press release has been made by a bank-staff union seeking a truthful investigation of the case. If a similar situation prevails in the future, is it not pitiful that innocent bankers working in good faith can be easily trapped by mastermind fraudsters? At such grave incidents, do they deserve to remain voiceless and alone in the darkroom of prison? This article was submitted by an author who chooses to remain anonymous. The author wants to be acknowledged only as ""Just a small investor of Nepse."" The author claims sole credit and responsibility for the opinions presented in this article. This article was submitted by a guest writer (navigate to the bottom for details). The Nepalese banking sector came to know about a major event of banking credit fraud of NRs. 19 crores at one of the reputed A-Class banks last week. The fraud was related to fake documents of land ownership, mortgage, and rokka. As per various news articles published on reliable media sources, the masterminds of the fraud game are under investigation (custody). An engineer who was involved in the evaluation of collateral has been taken into custody, along with a bank staff (Junior Assistant) deputed at Malpot Office. This event has once again triggered fear and discussion among all levels of personnel involved in the banking industry. It has been reported in the news that the related Bank has already made the borrower settle the loan after getting to know that the loan was disbursed against fake collateral and fake mortgage documents. This is a praise-worthy task done by the bank's management that has safe-guarded the sweat and toil of the general people in time. However, it is still unknown whether the bank has informed government authorities regarding the people involved in the production of such fake security documents. It is still not up to light whether the bank reported complaints to the Police or other concerned authority against the related borrower as the production of fake governmental seals and documents is a critical crime against the state. It has been reported that the issue came to light only after some months when the reputed singer and owner of the property filed complaints at CIB. Now a simple question arises in the mind of an honest citizen: is only settling the loan adequate for a serious crime involving the production of fake government documents? For an instance, bankers regularly torture innocent account holders for KYC, Customer Due Diligence, and related terminologies of AML and CFT at deposit/ withdrawal of a few thousands of rupees in accounts and file Suspicious Transactions Report against money laundering. But isn’t it a serious issue if they have done nothing in case of credit fraud of crores of rupees involving fake governmental documents, but rather tried to conceal the issue after settlement of the loan? The silent settlement of the issue puts thousands of innocent bankers at risk of being trapped by ill-minded people and may encourage wrong-doers to dig a wide hole in the banking system- ultimately risking the integrity and trust of the financial system. There is no online way of checking and tracking mortgage deeds and rokka paper at the Malpot Office in Nepal. Even to get a copy of one's own land ownership documents, one has to route oneself with “agents” around malpot offices and waste thousands of rupees. Multiple studies and reports published by organizations working on governance have already revealed Malpot offices being negatively reputed as corruption centers. Had there been an online way of tracking authenticity available to banks about whether a mortgage deed/Rokka of the property was legally registered on the respective Malpot office, no one could easily fake mortgage and rokka letters issued by Malpot Office. The same type of online tracking system needs to be implemented in the case of “Pragyanpatra” to check its reliability and originality to curb illegal money transfers outside the national border. The association of evaluators has already gone on strike against the imprisonment of the valuator involved in the valuation of the property related to the case. However, no one has even uttered a word of public sympathy for a Junior Level bank staff caught by CIB for investigation. If the top officials of the banks already knew about the counterfeit Mortgage Documents and settled the credit transaction, how does it sound just to only have a junior-level bank staff being in police custody for investigation purposes? The related staff irrespective of hierarchy- needs to be punished if found guilty, acting irresponsibly, and being involved with fraudsters. However, does it make any sense to imprison only the lowest level staff as the approval and disbursement process of a loan of Rs. 19 crores encompasses multiple levels of checks including the documents being duly scrutinized by various levels of risk and legal officers? In a similar type of fraud at another bank some years ago, the banking fraternity was raged when one of the CEO was taken under police custody. However, we can now observe- in the case of lower-level bank staff, queer silence exists everywhere, almost as if it is an ambush formed by fraudsters to honey trap the bank for credit fraud. Upon review of reliable news on reputed media, the matter is clear and requires no further explanations: the borrower of the case has forged fake documents. And if any staff of the bank is not involved in the scam and not associated with fraudsters, the victimized staff must be compensated against reputational damage. The life and career of the concerned staff, if found innocent, should not be made a scapegoat to save other culprits of the case. The truth of the case will be revealed sooner or later after the completion of the investigation. However, it is too pathetic to be realized by a banker that- had there been any type of attacks either physical or reputational on other professionals, the situation would have been different. Protest and defense by related associations/ unions in writing would be staged. But in the event of a fraud scheme of crores of rupees, the related bank staff unions/ federations are silent. Not even a press release has been made by a bank-staff union seeking a truthful investigation of the case. If a similar situation prevails in the future, is it not pitiful that innocent bankers working in good faith can be easily trapped by mastermind fraudsters? At such grave incidents, do they deserve to remain voiceless and alone in the darkroom of prison? This article was submitted by an author who chooses to remain anonymous. The author wants to be acknowledged only as ""Just a small investor of Nepse."" The author claims sole credit and responsibility for the opinions presented in this article. This article was submitted by a guest writer (navigate to the bottom for details). The Nepalese banking sector came to know about a major event of banking credit fraud of NRs. 19 crores at one of the reputed A-Class banks last week. The fraud was related to fake documents of land ownership, mortgage, and rokka. As per various news articles published on reliable media sources, the masterminds of the fraud game are under investigation (custody). An engineer who was involved in the evaluation of collateral has been taken into custody, along with a bank staff (Junior Assistant) deputed at Malpot Office. This event has once again triggered fear and discussion among all levels of personnel involved in the banking industry. It has been reported in the news that the related Bank has already made the borrower settle the loan after getting to know that the loan was disbursed against fake collateral and fake mortgage documents. This is a praise-worthy task done by the bank's management that has safe-guarded the sweat and toil of the general people in time. However, it is still unknown whether the bank has informed government authorities regarding the people involved in the production of such fake security documents. It is still not up to light whether the bank reported complaints to the Police or other concerned authority against the related borrower as the production of fake governmental seals and documents is a critical crime against the state. It has been reported that the issue came to light only after some months when the reputed singer and owner of the property filed complaints at CIB. Now a simple question arises in the mind of an honest citizen: is only settling the loan adequate for a serious crime involving the production of fake government documents? For an instance, bankers regularly torture innocent account holders for KYC, Customer Due Diligence, and related terminologies of AML and CFT at deposit/ withdrawal of a few thousands of rupees in accounts and file Suspicious Transactions Report against money laundering. But isn’t it a serious issue if they have done nothing in case of credit fraud of crores of rupees involving fake governmental documents, but rather tried to conceal the issue after settlement of the loan? The silent settlement of the issue puts thousands of innocent bankers at risk of being trapped by ill-minded people and may encourage wrong-doers to dig a wide hole in the banking system- ultimately risking the integrity and trust of the financial system. There is no online way of checking and tracking mortgage deeds and rokka paper at the Malpot Office in Nepal. Even to get a copy of one's own land ownership documents, one has to route oneself with “agents” around malpot offices and waste thousands of rupees. Multiple studies and reports published by organizations working on governance have already revealed Malpot offices being negatively reputed as corruption centers. Had there been an online way of tracking authenticity available to banks about whether a mortgage deed/Rokka of the property was legally registered on the respective Malpot office, no one could easily fake mortgage and rokka letters issued by Malpot Office. The same type of online tracking system needs to be implemented in the case of “Pragyanpatra” to check its reliability and originality to curb illegal money transfers outside the national border. The association of evaluators has already gone on strike against the imprisonment of the valuator involved in the valuation of the property related to the case. However, no one has even uttered a word of public sympathy for a Junior Level bank staff caught by CIB for investigation. If the top officials of the banks already knew about the counterfeit Mortgage Documents and settled the credit transaction, how does it sound just to only have a junior-level bank staff being in police custody for investigation purposes? The related staff irrespective of hierarchy- needs to be punished if found guilty, acting irresponsibly, and being involved with fraudsters. However, does it make any sense to imprison only the lowest level staff as the approval and disbursement process of a loan of Rs. 19 crores encompasses multiple levels of checks including the documents being duly scrutinized by various levels of risk and legal officers? In a similar type of fraud at another bank some years ago, the banking fraternity was raged when one of the CEO was taken under police custody. However, we can now observe- in the case of lower-level bank staff, queer silence exists everywhere, almost as if it is an ambush formed by fraudsters to honey trap the bank for credit fraud. Upon review of reliable news on reputed media, the matter is clear and requires no further explanations: the borrower of the case has forged fake documents. And if any staff of the bank is not involved in the scam and not associated with fraudsters, the victimized staff must be compensated against reputational damage. The life and career of the concerned staff, if found innocent, should not be made a scapegoat to save other culprits of the case. The truth of the case will be revealed sooner or later after the completion of the investigation. However, it is too pathetic to be realized by a banker that- had there been any type of attacks either physical or reputational on other professionals, the situation would have been different. Protest and defense by related associations/ unions in writing would be staged. But in the event of a fraud scheme of crores of rupees, the related bank staff unions/ federations are silent. Not even a press release has been made by a bank-staff union seeking a truthful investigation of the case. If a similar situation prevails in the future, is it not pitiful that innocent bankers working in good faith can be easily trapped by mastermind fraudsters? At such grave incidents, do they deserve to remain voiceless and alone in the darkroom of prison? This article was submitted by an author who chooses to remain anonymous. The author wants to be acknowledged only as ""Just a small investor of Nepse."" "
2021-11-14,"While the Nation is Facing a Liquidity Crisis, Central Bank Wants to Keep Interest Rate Hike in Check With Additional Restrictions",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/while-the-nation-is-facing-a-liquidity-crisis-central-bank-wants-to-keep-interest-rate-hike-in-check-with-additional-restrictions-2021-11-14,"Backdrop: Liquidity piled up in the nation's banking system during the pandemic, a result of pandemic-induced paralysis in the economy. In return, banking institutions lowered the interest rates to minimize interest payment expenses. Experts claim that this had a seesaw effect in the capital market, as depositors flocked to invest in securities that provided better returns.  However, as the national economy improved its grip after the pandemic, the excess liquidity in the banking system was quick to deplete. The economy suddenly faced a shortage of liquidity, and banks tried to attract depositors by raising interest rates. However, this comes at a cost for businesses and borrowers in the form of higher interest charges. Considering this, among other things, the central bank apparently wants to keep sudden interest rate hikes in check.  While the banking economy is struggling to attract enough deposits for loan forwarding, Nepal Rastra Bank has further tightened the interest rate raising provisions. The total deposit collected each week by commercial banks is in a declining trend, and the central bank seems to have anticipated that banks will retaliate by further raising interest rates. As such, NRB has further tightened the provision. Previously, banks could only raise their previous interest rates by 10%. Modifying the rule, NRB issued a directive today that a bank will be allowed to increase the interest rate by only 10 percent of the average interest rate of all the commercial banks. The same rule applies to development banks and finance companies, according to their own sector. For example, if the average interest rate published by all Class A commercial banks last month is 8.5 percent, they will be able to set the maximum interest rate only up to 9.35 percent, which is a 10 percent increase from the average figure. Backdrop: Liquidity piled up in the nation's banking system during the pandemic, a result of pandemic-induced paralysis in the economy. In return, banking institutions lowered the interest rates to minimize interest payment expenses. Experts claim that this had a seesaw effect in the capital market, as depositors flocked to invest in securities that provided better returns.  However, as the national economy improved its grip after the pandemic, the excess liquidity in the banking system was quick to deplete. The economy suddenly faced a shortage of liquidity, and banks tried to attract depositors by raising interest rates. However, this comes at a cost for businesses and borrowers in the form of higher interest charges. Considering this, among other things, the central bank apparently wants to keep sudden interest rate hikes in check.  While the banking economy is struggling to attract enough deposits for loan forwarding, Nepal Rastra Bank has further tightened the interest rate raising provisions. The total deposit collected each week by commercial banks is in a declining trend, and the central bank seems to have anticipated that banks will retaliate by further raising interest rates. As such, NRB has further tightened the provision. Previously, banks could only raise their previous interest rates by 10%. Modifying the rule, NRB issued a directive today that a bank will be allowed to increase the interest rate by only 10 percent of the average interest rate of all the commercial banks. The same rule applies to development banks and finance companies, according to their own sector. For example, if the average interest rate published by all Class A commercial banks last month is 8.5 percent, they will be able to set the maximum interest rate only up to 9.35 percent, which is a 10 percent increase from the average figure. Backdrop: Liquidity piled up in the nation's banking system during the pandemic, a result of pandemic-induced paralysis in the economy. In return, banking institutions lowered the interest rates to minimize interest payment expenses. Experts claim that this had a seesaw effect in the capital market, as depositors flocked to invest in securities that provided better returns.  However, as the national economy improved its grip after the pandemic, the excess liquidity in the banking system was quick to deplete. The economy suddenly faced a shortage of liquidity, and banks tried to attract depositors by raising interest rates. However, this comes at a cost for businesses and borrowers in the form of higher interest charges. Considering this, among other things, the central bank apparently wants to keep sudden interest rate hikes in check.  While the banking economy is struggling to attract enough deposits for loan forwarding, Nepal Rastra Bank has further tightened the interest rate raising provisions. The total deposit collected each week by commercial banks is in a declining trend, and the central bank seems to have anticipated that banks will retaliate by further raising interest rates. As such, NRB has further tightened the provision. Previously, banks could only raise their previous interest rates by 10%. Modifying the rule, NRB issued a directive today that a bank will be allowed to increase the interest rate by only 10 percent of the average interest rate of all the commercial banks. The same rule applies to development banks and finance companies, according to their own sector. For example, if the average interest rate published by all Class A commercial banks last month is 8.5 percent, they will be able to set the maximum interest rate only up to 9.35 percent, which is a 10 percent increase from the average figure. "
2021-11-14,Banks See Even Fewer Deposits in Fourth Week of Kartik; Lending Figure Sees Uptick,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/banks-see-even-fewer-deposits-in-fourth-week-of-kartik-lending-figure-sees-uptick-2021-11-14,"The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Kartik 26, i.e. the last working day of the fourth week. The average CD ratio of the month is 90.18%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 15 billion in the fourth week of Kartik, and the figure is at Rs. 4,223 billion. Rs. 4,100 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 124 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 3 billion in the fourth week of Kartik, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,028 billion. Rs. 3,872 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 156 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Kartik 26, i.e. the last working day of the fourth week. The average CD ratio of the month is 90.18%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 15 billion in the fourth week of Kartik, and the figure is at Rs. 4,223 billion. Rs. 4,100 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 124 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 3 billion in the fourth week of Kartik, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,028 billion. Rs. 3,872 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 156 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of Kartik 26, i.e. the last working day of the fourth week. The average CD ratio of the month is 90.18%. The total deposit went down by Rs. 15 billion in the fourth week of Kartik, and the figure is at Rs. 4,223 billion. Rs. 4,100 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 124 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 3 billion in the fourth week of Kartik, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,028 billion. Rs. 3,872 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 156 billion is in foreign currency. "
2021-11-11,"Commercial Banks See Decrement in Total Deposit in Third Week of Kartik, Increment in Lending",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-see-decrement-in-total-deposit-in-third-week-of-kartik-increment-in-lending-2021-11-11,"The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of 17 Kartik 2078, i.e. the last working day of Kartik's third week. The average CD ratio is 89.87% The total deposit went down by Rs. 9 billion in the first week of Kartik, and the figure is at Rs. 4,238 billion. Rs. 4,111 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 127 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 7 billion in the third week of Kartik, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,025 billion. Rs. 3871 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 153 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of 17 Kartik 2078, i.e. the last working day of Kartik's third week. The average CD ratio is 89.87% The total deposit went down by Rs. 9 billion in the first week of Kartik, and the figure is at Rs. 4,238 billion. Rs. 4,111 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 127 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 7 billion in the third week of Kartik, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,025 billion. Rs. 3871 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 153 billion is in foreign currency. The elaborate report on the trend of deposit and lending in the nation's commercial banks has been unveiled. This is the data reported as of 17 Kartik 2078, i.e. the last working day of Kartik's third week. The average CD ratio is 89.87% The total deposit went down by Rs. 9 billion in the first week of Kartik, and the figure is at Rs. 4,238 billion. Rs. 4,111 billion worth of deposit is in local currency while the rest Rs. 127 billion is in foreign currency. Meanwhile, the total lending has gone up by Rs. 7 billion in the third week of Kartik, and the total figure is at Rs. 4,025 billion. Rs. 3871 billion worth of lending has been forwarded in local currency while Rs. 153 billion is in foreign currency. "
2021-11-11,Nabil Bank inks MoU with Nepal Agricultural Market Development Programme Phase II; to collaborate for Strengthening capacity of Nabil Bank to finance Agri-SMEs in Province one,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inks-mou-with-nepal-agricultural-market-development-programme-phase-ii-to-collaborate-for-strengthening-capacity-of-nabil-bank-to-finance-agri-smes-in-province-one-2021-11-11,"Nabil Bank is a leading commercial bank in Nepal providing banking services to customers. Sahaj is a Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) project, implemented by a consortium of Swisscontact (as the lead agency) and the Center for Environmental and Agricultural Policy Research, Extension and Development (CEAPRED). In view of strengthening the agriculture segment and ultimately extending financial inclusion and promoting agro-entrepreneurship in Province One, they have signed a project agreement and have aligned project activities accordingly. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer, Nabil Bank, and Mr. Sanjay Karki, Country Director, Swisscontact Nepal signed the agreement during a special ceremony. Speaking about the project, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank said, ""Nabil Bank has always given priority to financial inclusion and believes that lending to the agriculture sector shall help the sustainable growth of the Nepalese economy. We believe this project shall bring around substantive changes to the way we do business with Agri-SMEs by improving our internal process and aligning our internal resources with the realities of the Agri-SMEs in Province One. Nabil Bank feels proud to have partnered with Sahaj in our joint vision of developing a thriving and inclusive agriculture sector.” Likewise, the Country Director of Swisscontact Nepal said, ""Swisscontact Nepal believes in partnering with institutions from the private sector and relevant stakeholders to create and shape sustainable opportunities that improve the lives of the people and communities. Recognizing the priority placed by Nabil Bank to develop a thriving and inclusive agriculture sector, Sahaj—the flagship project of Swisscontact Nepal—has partnered with the bank to provide financial and technical support, allowing them to improve their existing capacities and deliver innovative services and products to agri-businesses in Province One."" Nabil Bank is a leading commercial bank in Nepal providing banking services to customers. Sahaj is a Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) project, implemented by a consortium of Swisscontact (as the lead agency) and the Center for Environmental and Agricultural Policy Research, Extension and Development (CEAPRED). In view of strengthening the agriculture segment and ultimately extending financial inclusion and promoting agro-entrepreneurship in Province One, they have signed a project agreement and have aligned project activities accordingly. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer, Nabil Bank, and Mr. Sanjay Karki, Country Director, Swisscontact Nepal signed the agreement during a special ceremony. Speaking about the project, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank said, ""Nabil Bank has always given priority to financial inclusion and believes that lending to the agriculture sector shall help the sustainable growth of the Nepalese economy. We believe this project shall bring around substantive changes to the way we do business with Agri-SMEs by improving our internal process and aligning our internal resources with the realities of the Agri-SMEs in Province One. Nabil Bank feels proud to have partnered with Sahaj in our joint vision of developing a thriving and inclusive agriculture sector.” Likewise, the Country Director of Swisscontact Nepal said, ""Swisscontact Nepal believes in partnering with institutions from the private sector and relevant stakeholders to create and shape sustainable opportunities that improve the lives of the people and communities. Recognizing the priority placed by Nabil Bank to develop a thriving and inclusive agriculture sector, Sahaj—the flagship project of Swisscontact Nepal—has partnered with the bank to provide financial and technical support, allowing them to improve their existing capacities and deliver innovative services and products to agri-businesses in Province One."" Nabil Bank is a leading commercial bank in Nepal providing banking services to customers. Sahaj is a Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) project, implemented by a consortium of Swisscontact (as the lead agency) and the Center for Environmental and Agricultural Policy Research, Extension and Development (CEAPRED). In view of strengthening the agriculture segment and ultimately extending financial inclusion and promoting agro-entrepreneurship in Province One, they have signed a project agreement and have aligned project activities accordingly. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer, Nabil Bank, and Mr. Sanjay Karki, Country Director, Swisscontact Nepal signed the agreement during a special ceremony. Speaking about the project, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank said, ""Nabil Bank has always given priority to financial inclusion and believes that lending to the agriculture sector shall help the sustainable growth of the Nepalese economy. We believe this project shall bring around substantive changes to the way we do business with Agri-SMEs by improving our internal process and aligning our internal resources with the realities of the Agri-SMEs in Province One. Nabil Bank feels proud to have partnered with Sahaj in our joint vision of developing a thriving and inclusive agriculture sector.” Likewise, the Country Director of Swisscontact Nepal said, ""Swisscontact Nepal believes in partnering with institutions from the private sector and relevant stakeholders to create and shape sustainable opportunities that improve the lives of the people and communities. Recognizing the priority placed by Nabil Bank to develop a thriving and inclusive agriculture sector, Sahaj—the flagship project of Swisscontact Nepal—has partnered with the bank to provide financial and technical support, allowing them to improve their existing capacities and deliver innovative services and products to agri-businesses in Province One."" "
2021-11-11,Nabil Bank ties up with Daraz for Daraz 11.11 Cashback Campaign; card users to enjoy attractive cashback of 15% during mega sales offer,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-ties-up-with-daraz-for-daraz-1111-cashback-campaign-card-users-to-enjoy-attractive-cashback-of-15-during-mega-sales-offer-2021-11-10,"Nabil Bank has entered into a partnership with Daraz for Cashback Campaign to be conducted on November 11, 2021. The campaign is titled  “Daraz 11.11“. Customers using their Nabil debit/credit card shall be able to enjoy cashback discounts during the campaign period. The campaign is scheduled to be run from 11th November 2021 to 19th November 2021. Nabil Bank’s debit card users shall be able to enjoy a cashback of 15% discount with a maximum limit of NPR 3000/- for each transaction. Further Nabil Bank’s credit card users shall be able to enjoy a cashback of 15% discount with a maximum limit of NPR 3500/- for each transaction. Nabil Bank has entered into a partnership with Daraz for Cashback Campaign to be conducted on November 11, 2021. The campaign is titled  “Daraz 11.11“. Customers using their Nabil debit/credit card shall be able to enjoy cashback discounts during the campaign period. The campaign is scheduled to be run from 11th November 2021 to 19th November 2021. Nabil Bank’s debit card users shall be able to enjoy a cashback of 15% discount with a maximum limit of NPR 3000/- for each transaction. Further Nabil Bank’s credit card users shall be able to enjoy a cashback of 15% discount with a maximum limit of NPR 3500/- for each transaction. Nabil Bank has entered into a partnership with Daraz for Cashback Campaign to be conducted on November 11, 2021. The campaign is titled  “Daraz 11.11“. Customers using their Nabil debit/credit card shall be able to enjoy cashback discounts during the campaign period. The campaign is scheduled to be run from 11th November 2021 to 19th November 2021. Nabil Bank’s debit card users shall be able to enjoy a cashback of 15% discount with a maximum limit of NPR 3000/- for each transaction. Further Nabil Bank’s credit card users shall be able to enjoy a cashback of 15% discount with a maximum limit of NPR 3500/- for each transaction. "
2021-11-08,Decline in Interest Income But Higher Loan Imbursement and Higher Net Profit (Deep Dive Into Performance of Commercial Banks in First Quarter),https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-bank-comparative-q1-2021-11-04,"Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the low-interest-rate environment and bad loans that might occur, banks have reported improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter. In this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks and do a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. As per the net profit of the first quarter of FY 2078/79, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 1.18 Arba. Similarly, both Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 1.11 Arba each in the same quarter. The bank with the least net profit is Bank of Kathmandu Limited (BOKL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 25.34 crores. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 67.10 crores. All commercial banks except 4 have increased net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last year.   The total net profit for the quarter is Rs 18.11 Arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 14.91 Arba. The overall industry net profit has increased by 21.49%. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 21.63 Arba capital and NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with Rs 16.33 Arba paid-up capital.   * ADBL capital doesn't include 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares. With an industry average of Rs 9.30 Arba, 10 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 9.30 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.51 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 21.53 Arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 21.05 Arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 20.37 Arba.   On an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.53 kharba as a deposit. 13 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the first quarter of FY 2078/79, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.78 kharba, Global IME Bank (GBIME) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.67 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.41 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 77 Arba.  The top position in loans and advances is occupied by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.64 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.51 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 2.07 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 68 Arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.41 Kharba. 12 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.41 Kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans to support the government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting an application for a loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies, and public transportation by rescheduling their loan payment. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 2.78 Arba followed by Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) with an income of Rs 2.35 Arba and Global IME Bank (GBIME) with an income of Rs 2.33 Arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 1.34 Arba. 11 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.45 Arba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) and Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.05 Arba. NMB Bank Limited (NMB) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.04 Arba.  Major indicators: Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 41.26 per share. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 40.84 per share. Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 34.62 per share. Bank of Kathmandu Limited (BOKL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 10.50 per share.  The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 22.52. 12 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 306.66 which belongs to Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB). Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the second position with Rs 270.44. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q1 of FY 2078/79 i.e. Rs 247.31. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 124.95 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 180.08 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. Mega Bank Nepal Limited (MEGA) has the least PE ratio of 13.21 times. It is followed by Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) with a PE ratio of 13.26 times. 17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 21.15 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for the quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) reported the lowest NPL of 0.11% in terms of asset quality. This is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.13%.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has reported the highest NPL of 3.01%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Nepal Investment Limited (NIBL) seems to have the highest NPL of 2.27%.   In terms of the Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.42%. This is followed by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with a CAR of 16.09%.  When we look at the indicators of banks, the overall picture doesn't seem so bad after the second wave of the pandemic. Since the central bank applied the expansionary monetary policy to limit the effect of a pandemic on the whole economy, banks had to provide loans at a cheaper rate which could be one of the reasons for lower interest income. However, the banks have disbursed a huge amount of loans, indicating that the investments in the economy are increasing. Since the allocation of provision has also been declining significantly, it might be quite safe to say that the banks have been able to disburse good loans. Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the first quarter of FY 2078/79:  Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the low-interest-rate environment and bad loans that might occur, banks have reported improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter. In this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks and do a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. As per the net profit of the first quarter of FY 2078/79, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 1.18 Arba. Similarly, both Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 1.11 Arba each in the same quarter. The bank with the least net profit is Bank of Kathmandu Limited (BOKL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 25.34 crores. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 67.10 crores. All commercial banks except 4 have increased net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last year.   The total net profit for the quarter is Rs 18.11 Arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 14.91 Arba. The overall industry net profit has increased by 21.49%. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 21.63 Arba capital and NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with Rs 16.33 Arba paid-up capital.   * ADBL capital doesn't include 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares. With an industry average of Rs 9.30 Arba, 10 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 9.30 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.51 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 21.53 Arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 21.05 Arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 20.37 Arba.   On an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.53 kharba as a deposit. 13 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the first quarter of FY 2078/79, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.78 kharba, Global IME Bank (GBIME) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.67 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.41 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 77 Arba.  The top position in loans and advances is occupied by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.64 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.51 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 2.07 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 68 Arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.41 Kharba. 12 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.41 Kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans to support the government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting an application for a loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies, and public transportation by rescheduling their loan payment. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 2.78 Arba followed by Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) with an income of Rs 2.35 Arba and Global IME Bank (GBIME) with an income of Rs 2.33 Arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 1.34 Arba. 11 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.45 Arba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) and Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.05 Arba. NMB Bank Limited (NMB) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.04 Arba.  Major indicators: Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 41.26 per share. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 40.84 per share. Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 34.62 per share. Bank of Kathmandu Limited (BOKL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 10.50 per share.  The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 22.52. 12 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 306.66 which belongs to Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB). Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the second position with Rs 270.44. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q1 of FY 2078/79 i.e. Rs 247.31. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 124.95 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 180.08 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. Mega Bank Nepal Limited (MEGA) has the least PE ratio of 13.21 times. It is followed by Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) with a PE ratio of 13.26 times. 17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 21.15 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for the quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) reported the lowest NPL of 0.11% in terms of asset quality. This is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.13%.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has reported the highest NPL of 3.01%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Nepal Investment Limited (NIBL) seems to have the highest NPL of 2.27%.   In terms of the Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.42%. This is followed by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with a CAR of 16.09%.  When we look at the indicators of banks, the overall picture doesn't seem so bad after the second wave of the pandemic. Since the central bank applied the expansionary monetary policy to limit the effect of a pandemic on the whole economy, banks had to provide loans at a cheaper rate which could be one of the reasons for lower interest income. However, the banks have disbursed a huge amount of loans, indicating that the investments in the economy are increasing. Since the allocation of provision has also been declining significantly, it might be quite safe to say that the banks have been able to disburse good loans. Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the first quarter of FY 2078/79:  Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the low-interest-rate environment and bad loans that might occur, banks have reported improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter. In this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks and do a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. As per the net profit of the first quarter of FY 2078/79, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 1.18 Arba. Similarly, both Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 1.11 Arba each in the same quarter. The bank with the least net profit is Bank of Kathmandu Limited (BOKL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 25.34 crores. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 67.10 crores. All commercial banks except 4 have increased net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last year.   The total net profit for the quarter is Rs 18.11 Arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 14.91 Arba. The overall industry net profit has increased by 21.49%. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 21.63 Arba capital and NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with Rs 16.33 Arba paid-up capital.   * ADBL capital doesn't include 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares. With an industry average of Rs 9.30 Arba, 10 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 9.30 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.51 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 21.53 Arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 21.05 Arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 20.37 Arba.   On an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.53 kharba as a deposit. 13 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the first quarter of FY 2078/79, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.78 kharba, Global IME Bank (GBIME) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.67 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.41 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 77 Arba.  The top position in loans and advances is occupied by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.64 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.51 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 2.07 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 68 Arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.41 Kharba. 12 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.41 Kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans to support the government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting an application for a loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies, and public transportation by rescheduling their loan payment. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 2.78 Arba followed by Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) with an income of Rs 2.35 Arba and Global IME Bank (GBIME) with an income of Rs 2.33 Arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 1.34 Arba. 11 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.45 Arba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) and Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.05 Arba. NMB Bank Limited (NMB) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.04 Arba.  Major indicators: Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 41.26 per share. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 40.84 per share. Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 34.62 per share. Bank of Kathmandu Limited (BOKL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 10.50 per share.  The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 22.52. 12 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 306.66 which belongs to Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB). Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the second position with Rs 270.44. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q1 of FY 2078/79 i.e. Rs 247.31. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 124.95 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 180.08 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. Mega Bank Nepal Limited (MEGA) has the least PE ratio of 13.21 times. It is followed by Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) with a PE ratio of 13.26 times. 17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 21.15 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for the quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) reported the lowest NPL of 0.11% in terms of asset quality. This is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.13%.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has reported the highest NPL of 3.01%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Nepal Investment Limited (NIBL) seems to have the highest NPL of 2.27%.   In terms of the Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 16.42%. This is followed by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with a CAR of 16.09%.  When we look at the indicators of banks, the overall picture doesn't seem so bad after the second wave of the pandemic. Since the central bank applied the expansionary monetary policy to limit the effect of a pandemic on the whole economy, banks had to provide loans at a cheaper rate which could be one of the reasons for lower interest income. However, the banks have disbursed a huge amount of loans, indicating that the investments in the economy are increasing. Since the allocation of provision has also been declining significantly, it might be quite safe to say that the banks have been able to disburse good loans. Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the first quarter of FY 2078/79:  "
2021-11-08,Nabil Bank receives Honorable Mention at the 2021 Global SME Finance Awards,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-receives-honorable-mention-at-the-2021-global-sme-finance-awards-2021-11-08,"Nabil Bank has received an Honorable Mention under the “SME Financier of the Year – Asia” category at the 2021 Global SME Finance Awards on 21st October 2021. Organized by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group, and the SME Finance Forum and endorsed by the G20’s Global Partnership for Financial Inclusion (GPFI), the Global SME Finance Awards celebrate the outstanding achievements of financial institutions and fintech companies in delivering exceptional products and services to their SME clients.  The IFC and SME Finance Forum have recognized Nabil Bank for the tremendous growth and substantial contribution that the Bank has made in the past fiscal year for the development of the SME sector. As SMEs are the backbone of any economy especially at this time when national economies have been significantly impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, Nabil Bank has strategically shifted its focus towards the SME sector and proactively incorporated innovation into its business process with simplification.  Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank said, “Nabil Bank gives utmost priority to expanding finance to SMEs and assists towards addressing Covid-19’s immediate difficulties being faced by our SME sector. By shifting our strategic concentration towards SME financing, and re-engineering our business process, the Bank has been and will continue to create a substantial contribution towards the country’s economic growth.” Matthew Gamser, CEO of the SME Finance Forum said, “Every year we see more and more impressive institutions doing incredible things to help improve SMEs’ access to finance.  We see great innovations and new ways to put the customer first and ensure that financing is responsible and truly beneficial. The 2021 competition brings us more of the same – bigger innovations, bigger achievements, and bigger potential.” Last month, Nabil Bank was also recognized as the Leading Partner Bank in Nepal for 2021 by Asian Development Bank (ADB). Similarly, Nabil Bank had also successfully bagged the ‘Nepal’s Best Bank’ award by Euromoney in August 2021 for 2 years in a row. Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network of 135 branches, 188 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank has received an Honorable Mention under the “SME Financier of the Year – Asia” category at the 2021 Global SME Finance Awards on 21st October 2021. Organized by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group, and the SME Finance Forum and endorsed by the G20’s Global Partnership for Financial Inclusion (GPFI), the Global SME Finance Awards celebrate the outstanding achievements of financial institutions and fintech companies in delivering exceptional products and services to their SME clients.  The IFC and SME Finance Forum have recognized Nabil Bank for the tremendous growth and substantial contribution that the Bank has made in the past fiscal year for the development of the SME sector. As SMEs are the backbone of any economy especially at this time when national economies have been significantly impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, Nabil Bank has strategically shifted its focus towards the SME sector and proactively incorporated innovation into its business process with simplification.  Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank said, “Nabil Bank gives utmost priority to expanding finance to SMEs and assists towards addressing Covid-19’s immediate difficulties being faced by our SME sector. By shifting our strategic concentration towards SME financing, and re-engineering our business process, the Bank has been and will continue to create a substantial contribution towards the country’s economic growth.” Matthew Gamser, CEO of the SME Finance Forum said, “Every year we see more and more impressive institutions doing incredible things to help improve SMEs’ access to finance.  We see great innovations and new ways to put the customer first and ensure that financing is responsible and truly beneficial. The 2021 competition brings us more of the same – bigger innovations, bigger achievements, and bigger potential.” Last month, Nabil Bank was also recognized as the Leading Partner Bank in Nepal for 2021 by Asian Development Bank (ADB). Similarly, Nabil Bank had also successfully bagged the ‘Nepal’s Best Bank’ award by Euromoney in August 2021 for 2 years in a row. Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network of 135 branches, 188 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank has received an Honorable Mention under the “SME Financier of the Year – Asia” category at the 2021 Global SME Finance Awards on 21st October 2021. Organized by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group, and the SME Finance Forum and endorsed by the G20’s Global Partnership for Financial Inclusion (GPFI), the Global SME Finance Awards celebrate the outstanding achievements of financial institutions and fintech companies in delivering exceptional products and services to their SME clients.  The IFC and SME Finance Forum have recognized Nabil Bank for the tremendous growth and substantial contribution that the Bank has made in the past fiscal year for the development of the SME sector. As SMEs are the backbone of any economy especially at this time when national economies have been significantly impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, Nabil Bank has strategically shifted its focus towards the SME sector and proactively incorporated innovation into its business process with simplification.  Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank said, “Nabil Bank gives utmost priority to expanding finance to SMEs and assists towards addressing Covid-19’s immediate difficulties being faced by our SME sector. By shifting our strategic concentration towards SME financing, and re-engineering our business process, the Bank has been and will continue to create a substantial contribution towards the country’s economic growth.” Matthew Gamser, CEO of the SME Finance Forum said, “Every year we see more and more impressive institutions doing incredible things to help improve SMEs’ access to finance.  We see great innovations and new ways to put the customer first and ensure that financing is responsible and truly beneficial. The 2021 competition brings us more of the same – bigger innovations, bigger achievements, and bigger potential.” Last month, Nabil Bank was also recognized as the Leading Partner Bank in Nepal for 2021 by Asian Development Bank (ADB). Similarly, Nabil Bank had also successfully bagged the ‘Nepal’s Best Bank’ award by Euromoney in August 2021 for 2 years in a row. Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network of 135 branches, 188 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. "
2021-11-02,Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) Proposes 38% Dividend for FY 2077/78; How Much is Bonus Shares and Cash?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-nabil-proposes-38-dividend-for-fy-207778-how-much-is-bonus-shares-and-cash-2021-11-02,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has proposed a 38% dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. The meeting of the board of directors held on Kartik 16 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 13.84 arba. 33.6% bonus shares and 4.4% cash dividend (including tax) have been proposed.  The dividend will be distributed only after approval by the central bank and endorsement by the company's upcoming AGM.  As of writing, NABIL has an LTP of Rs 1,608. Dividend History:  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has proposed a 38% dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. The meeting of the board of directors held on Kartik 16 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 13.84 arba. 33.6% bonus shares and 4.4% cash dividend (including tax) have been proposed.  The dividend will be distributed only after approval by the central bank and endorsement by the company's upcoming AGM.  As of writing, NABIL has an LTP of Rs 1,608. Dividend History:  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has proposed a 38% dividend for the fiscal year 2077/78. The meeting of the board of directors held on Kartik 16 decided to distribute the dividend on the paid-up capital of Rs. 13.84 arba. 33.6% bonus shares and 4.4% cash dividend (including tax) have been proposed.  The dividend will be distributed only after approval by the central bank and endorsement by the company's upcoming AGM.  As of writing, NABIL has an LTP of Rs 1,608. Dividend History:  "
2021-11-01,"Profitability Figures of Commercial Banks Painted a Greener Picture in First Quarter, Most Banks Report Net Rise in Profit (Tabular Comparison of All 27 Banks)",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-bank-net-profit-2021-11-01,"All 27 commercial banks have unveiled their first quarter report of the current fiscal year 2078/79. Of the 27 banks, only four have reported a decline in profitability in the first quarter compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year. All banks have reported a profit nonetheless. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited has witnessed the highest percentage decline in net profit: 27.93%. Meanwhile, Civil Bank Limited has reported the highest percentage increase in net profit: a staggering 201.88% surge from the same quarter of the previous fiscal year. When it comes to raw figures, however, the data tells a different story. NIC Asia Bank has reported the highest net profit figure in the first quarter of the current fiscal year 2078/79. The commercial bank's net profit has stood at Rs. 1,18,06,91,000. Another banking giant, Nabil Bank and Global IME Bank both are closely trailing behind with profitability reported at slightly over Rs. 1.11 Arba. All 27 commercial banks have unveiled their first quarter report of the current fiscal year 2078/79. Of the 27 banks, only four have reported a decline in profitability in the first quarter compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year. All banks have reported a profit nonetheless. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited has witnessed the highest percentage decline in net profit: 27.93%. Meanwhile, Civil Bank Limited has reported the highest percentage increase in net profit: a staggering 201.88% surge from the same quarter of the previous fiscal year. When it comes to raw figures, however, the data tells a different story. NIC Asia Bank has reported the highest net profit figure in the first quarter of the current fiscal year 2078/79. The commercial bank's net profit has stood at Rs. 1,18,06,91,000. Another banking giant, Nabil Bank and Global IME Bank both are closely trailing behind with profitability reported at slightly over Rs. 1.11 Arba. All 27 commercial banks have unveiled their first quarter report of the current fiscal year 2078/79. Of the 27 banks, only four have reported a decline in profitability in the first quarter compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year. All banks have reported a profit nonetheless. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited has witnessed the highest percentage decline in net profit: 27.93%. Meanwhile, Civil Bank Limited has reported the highest percentage increase in net profit: a staggering 201.88% surge from the same quarter of the previous fiscal year. When it comes to raw figures, however, the data tells a different story. NIC Asia Bank has reported the highest net profit figure in the first quarter of the current fiscal year 2078/79. The commercial bank's net profit has stood at Rs. 1,18,06,91,000. Another banking giant, Nabil Bank and Global IME Bank both are closely trailing behind with profitability reported at slightly over Rs. 1.11 Arba. "
2021-11-01,Nabil Bank's earn Rs 1.11 arba till Q1 with 7.39% growth; Look at the major financial highlight,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-earn-rs-111-arba-till-q1-with-739-growth-look-at-the-major-financial-highlight-2021-11-01,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its first-quarter report for the FY 2078/2079 with an increment in Net Profit by 7.39%. The bank's net profit has increased from Rs. 1.03 Arba in the first quarter of FY 2077/2078 to Rs. 1.11 Arba in the first quarter of FY 2078/2079. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 85.19 crore as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 1.08% to Rs. 2.25 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 4.71% to Rs. 2.07 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the first quarter. The bank's Net Interest Income (core business income) has increased by 42.41% to Rs. 2.24 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 13.84 Arba with Rs. 20.39 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 1.13%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 32.14 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 247.31. The company traded at a P/E multiple of 46.12 times. Click here for Q1 report: Major Highlights:   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its first-quarter report for the FY 2078/2079 with an increment in Net Profit by 7.39%. The bank's net profit has increased from Rs. 1.03 Arba in the first quarter of FY 2077/2078 to Rs. 1.11 Arba in the first quarter of FY 2078/2079. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 85.19 crore as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 1.08% to Rs. 2.25 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 4.71% to Rs. 2.07 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the first quarter. The bank's Net Interest Income (core business income) has increased by 42.41% to Rs. 2.24 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 13.84 Arba with Rs. 20.39 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 1.13%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 32.14 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 247.31. The company traded at a P/E multiple of 46.12 times. Click here for Q1 report: Major Highlights:   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its first-quarter report for the FY 2078/2079 with an increment in Net Profit by 7.39%. The bank's net profit has increased from Rs. 1.03 Arba in the first quarter of FY 2077/2078 to Rs. 1.11 Arba in the first quarter of FY 2078/2079. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 85.19 crore as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 1.08% to Rs. 2.25 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 4.71% to Rs. 2.07 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the first quarter. The bank's Net Interest Income (core business income) has increased by 42.41% to Rs. 2.24 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 13.84 Arba with Rs. 20.39 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 1.13%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 32.14 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 247.31. The company traded at a P/E multiple of 46.12 times. Click here for Q1 report: Major Highlights:   "
2021-11-01,Nabil Bank to partner with Pokhara University; students of BED Program in PU to receive affordable credit facility to grow their business,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-partner-with-pokhara-university-students-of-bed-program-in-pu-to-receive-affordable-credit-facility-to-grow-their-business-2021-11-01,"Nabil Bank has inked an agreement to expand its coverage of Digo Banking scheme with Pokhara University under which the bank will extend affordable credit facilities to the students of the Bachelor of Entrepreneurship Development-BED Program of the university who are running enterprises of their own.  The MoU was signed between the CEO of the bank Mr. Anil Kesari Shah and Dean of Humanities and Social Sciences of the university Dr. Ajay Thapa amid a program. The bank aims to promote entrepreneurship development among the students of the university and to help their business flourish with its credit support, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement to expand its coverage of Digo Banking scheme with Pokhara University under which the bank will extend affordable credit facilities to the students of the Bachelor of Entrepreneurship Development-BED Program of the university who are running enterprises of their own.  The MoU was signed between the CEO of the bank Mr. Anil Kesari Shah and Dean of Humanities and Social Sciences of the university Dr. Ajay Thapa amid a program. The bank aims to promote entrepreneurship development among the students of the university and to help their business flourish with its credit support, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement to expand its coverage of Digo Banking scheme with Pokhara University under which the bank will extend affordable credit facilities to the students of the Bachelor of Entrepreneurship Development-BED Program of the university who are running enterprises of their own.  The MoU was signed between the CEO of the bank Mr. Anil Kesari Shah and Dean of Humanities and Social Sciences of the university Dr. Ajay Thapa amid a program. The bank aims to promote entrepreneurship development among the students of the university and to help their business flourish with its credit support, as per the media statement. "
2021-10-29,Nabil Bank to extend affordable loans to farmers and entrepreneurs of Gajuri Gaupalika in Dhading; aims to promote sustainable local economy through its Digo Banking program,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-extend-affordable-loans-to-farmers-and-entrepreneurs-of-gajuri-gaupalika-in-dhading-aims-to-promote-sustainable-local-economy-through-its-digo-banking-program-2021-10-29,"Nabil Bank, under its Digo Banking scheme, has inked an agreement with Gajuri gaupalika of Dhading to promote rural agriculture and entrepreneurship among the locals of the local unit.  The MoU was signed between Chief Business Officer of Nabil Bank Mr. Ganesh Prasad Awasthi and head of gaupalika Mr. Rajendra Bikram Basnet amid a program, as per the media statement. With this understanding, the bank will extend subsidized loans for agro and other businesses to the entrepreneurs and farmers of the local unit who are trained enough to run those businesses following the forwarded recommendation from the local unit whereas will also conduct different events to raise financial literacy among the local residents, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank, under its Digo Banking scheme, has inked an agreement with Gajuri gaupalika of Dhading to promote rural agriculture and entrepreneurship among the locals of the local unit.  The MoU was signed between Chief Business Officer of Nabil Bank Mr. Ganesh Prasad Awasthi and head of gaupalika Mr. Rajendra Bikram Basnet amid a program, as per the media statement. With this understanding, the bank will extend subsidized loans for agro and other businesses to the entrepreneurs and farmers of the local unit who are trained enough to run those businesses following the forwarded recommendation from the local unit whereas will also conduct different events to raise financial literacy among the local residents, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank, under its Digo Banking scheme, has inked an agreement with Gajuri gaupalika of Dhading to promote rural agriculture and entrepreneurship among the locals of the local unit.  The MoU was signed between Chief Business Officer of Nabil Bank Mr. Ganesh Prasad Awasthi and head of gaupalika Mr. Rajendra Bikram Basnet amid a program, as per the media statement. With this understanding, the bank will extend subsidized loans for agro and other businesses to the entrepreneurs and farmers of the local unit who are trained enough to run those businesses following the forwarded recommendation from the local unit whereas will also conduct different events to raise financial literacy among the local residents, as per the media statement. "
2021-10-27,Nabil Bank to extend affordable loans to farmers and entrepreneurs of Barahital Gaupalika in Surkhet; aims to promote sustainable rural development by empowering local agriculture and small industries,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-extend-affordable-loans-to-farmers-and-entrepreneurs-of-barahital-gaupalika-in-surkhet-aims-to-promote-sustainable-rural-development-by-empowering-local-agriculture-and-small-industries-2021-10-27,"Nabil Bank, under its Digo Banking scheme, has inked an agreement with Barahatal gaupalika of Surkhet to promote rural agriculture and entrepreneurship among the locals of the local unit.  The MoU was signed between Director of Nabil Digo Banking Mr. Lila Prasad Aryal and head of gaupalika Mr. Tej Bahadur Basnet amid a program, as per the media statement. With this understanding, the bank will extend subsidized loans for agro and other businesses to the entrepreneurs and farmers of the local unit who are trained enough to run those businesses following the forwarded recommendation from the local unit whereas will also conduct different events to raise financial literacy among the local residents, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank, under its Digo Banking scheme, has inked an agreement with Barahatal gaupalika of Surkhet to promote rural agriculture and entrepreneurship among the locals of the local unit.  The MoU was signed between Director of Nabil Digo Banking Mr. Lila Prasad Aryal and head of gaupalika Mr. Tej Bahadur Basnet amid a program, as per the media statement. With this understanding, the bank will extend subsidized loans for agro and other businesses to the entrepreneurs and farmers of the local unit who are trained enough to run those businesses following the forwarded recommendation from the local unit whereas will also conduct different events to raise financial literacy among the local residents, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank, under its Digo Banking scheme, has inked an agreement with Barahatal gaupalika of Surkhet to promote rural agriculture and entrepreneurship among the locals of the local unit.  The MoU was signed between Director of Nabil Digo Banking Mr. Lila Prasad Aryal and head of gaupalika Mr. Tej Bahadur Basnet amid a program, as per the media statement. With this understanding, the bank will extend subsidized loans for agro and other businesses to the entrepreneurs and farmers of the local unit who are trained enough to run those businesses following the forwarded recommendation from the local unit whereas will also conduct different events to raise financial literacy among the local residents, as per the media statement. "
2021-10-21,"Banks Revise Interest Rates After NRB Circular, What Has Changed?",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/banks-revise-interest-rates-after-nrb-circular-what-has-changed-2021-10-21,"Issuing an addition to the unified directive, Nepal Rastra Bank has urged banks and financial institutions (A, B, and C class) to revise their interest rates profile for the month of Kartik. Banks and financial institutions had unveiled the new interest rates profile for Kartik with a hike in interest rates, the highest of the last three years. This was understood as an indicator that liquidity in the banking economy was being withdrawan, and BFIs were competing to attract more deposits. In a three-point directive issued on Tuesday evening, NRB said that banks and financial institutions can change the previously published any interest rate by only 10 percent. Similarly, the highest interest rate provided to institutions on fixed deposits should be lesser than that provided to individuals by 1 percentage point. The central bank gave the ultimatum that requires BFIs to unveil the revised rates on their respective website by Kartik 03. Similarly, the revised interest rates profile should be published in a national newspaper by Kartik 05. Issuing an addition to the unified directive, Nepal Rastra Bank has urged banks and financial institutions (A, B, and C class) to revise their interest rates profile for the month of Kartik. Banks and financial institutions had unveiled the new interest rates profile for Kartik with a hike in interest rates, the highest of the last three years. This was understood as an indicator that liquidity in the banking economy was being withdrawan, and BFIs were competing to attract more deposits. In a three-point directive issued on Tuesday evening, NRB said that banks and financial institutions can change the previously published any interest rate by only 10 percent. Similarly, the highest interest rate provided to institutions on fixed deposits should be lesser than that provided to individuals by 1 percentage point. The central bank gave the ultimatum that requires BFIs to unveil the revised rates on their respective website by Kartik 03. Similarly, the revised interest rates profile should be published in a national newspaper by Kartik 05. Issuing an addition to the unified directive, Nepal Rastra Bank has urged banks and financial institutions (A, B, and C class) to revise their interest rates profile for the month of Kartik. Banks and financial institutions had unveiled the new interest rates profile for Kartik with a hike in interest rates, the highest of the last three years. This was understood as an indicator that liquidity in the banking economy was being withdrawan, and BFIs were competing to attract more deposits. In a three-point directive issued on Tuesday evening, NRB said that banks and financial institutions can change the previously published any interest rate by only 10 percent. Similarly, the highest interest rate provided to institutions on fixed deposits should be lesser than that provided to individuals by 1 percentage point. The central bank gave the ultimatum that requires BFIs to unveil the revised rates on their respective website by Kartik 03. Similarly, the revised interest rates profile should be published in a national newspaper by Kartik 05. "
2021-10-20,Nepal Rastra Bank Slams Hike in Interest Rate With Addition in Unified Directive; BFIs Forced to Bring Interest Rates Down By Today,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nepal-rastra-bank-slams-hike-in-interest-rate-with-addition-in-unified-directive-bfis-forced-to-bring-interest-rates-down-by-today-2021-10-20,"Issuing an addition to the unified directive, Nepal Rastra Bank has urged banks and financial institutions (A, B, and C class) to revise their interest rates profile for the month of Kartik. Banks and financial institutions had unveiled the new interest rates profile for Kartik with a hike in interest rates, the highest of the last three years. This was understood as an indicator that liquidity in the banking economy was being withdrawan, and BFIs were competing to attract more deposits. In a three-point directive issued on Tuesday evening, NRB said that banks and financial institutions can change the previously published any interest rate by only 10 percent. Similarly, the highest interest rate provided to institutions on fixed deposits should be lesser than that provided to individuals by 1 percentage point. The central bank has given the ultimatum that requires BFIs to unveil the revised rates on their respective website by today, i.e. Kartik 03. Similarly, the revised interest rates profile should be published in a national newspaper by Kartik 05. Issuing an addition to the unified directive, Nepal Rastra Bank has urged banks and financial institutions (A, B, and C class) to revise their interest rates profile for the month of Kartik. Banks and financial institutions had unveiled the new interest rates profile for Kartik with a hike in interest rates, the highest of the last three years. This was understood as an indicator that liquidity in the banking economy was being withdrawan, and BFIs were competing to attract more deposits. In a three-point directive issued on Tuesday evening, NRB said that banks and financial institutions can change the previously published any interest rate by only 10 percent. Similarly, the highest interest rate provided to institutions on fixed deposits should be lesser than that provided to individuals by 1 percentage point. The central bank has given the ultimatum that requires BFIs to unveil the revised rates on their respective website by today, i.e. Kartik 03. Similarly, the revised interest rates profile should be published in a national newspaper by Kartik 05. Issuing an addition to the unified directive, Nepal Rastra Bank has urged banks and financial institutions (A, B, and C class) to revise their interest rates profile for the month of Kartik. Banks and financial institutions had unveiled the new interest rates profile for Kartik with a hike in interest rates, the highest of the last three years. This was understood as an indicator that liquidity in the banking economy was being withdrawan, and BFIs were competing to attract more deposits. In a three-point directive issued on Tuesday evening, NRB said that banks and financial institutions can change the previously published any interest rate by only 10 percent. Similarly, the highest interest rate provided to institutions on fixed deposits should be lesser than that provided to individuals by 1 percentage point. The central bank has given the ultimatum that requires BFIs to unveil the revised rates on their respective website by today, i.e. Kartik 03. Similarly, the revised interest rates profile should be published in a national newspaper by Kartik 05. "
2021-10-18,Banks Raise Interest Rates for Kartik; Here's the Updated Interest Profile of Every Bank Compared to Previous Month's Rates,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/banks-raise-interest-rate-for-kartik-heres-the-updated-interest-profile-of-every-bank-compared-to-previous-months-rates-2021-10-18,"Commercial Banks have unveiled the interest rates rate profile for the month of Kartik. Commercial Banks had raised the interest rates for the month of Ashwin, an effect believed to have been caused by decreasing liquidity in the banking system. The interest rate hike was the highest seen after the pandemic. The new interest rates profile unveiled for the month of Kartik shows an overall continuation to the interest rate hike. Commercial Banks have unveiled the interest rates rate profile for the month of Kartik. Commercial Banks had raised the interest rates for the month of Ashwin, an effect believed to have been caused by decreasing liquidity in the banking system. The interest rate hike was the highest seen after the pandemic. The new interest rates profile unveiled for the month of Kartik shows an overall continuation to the interest rate hike. Commercial Banks have unveiled the interest rates rate profile for the month of Kartik. Commercial Banks had raised the interest rates for the month of Ashwin, an effect believed to have been caused by decreasing liquidity in the banking system. The interest rate hike was the highest seen after the pandemic. The new interest rates profile unveiled for the month of Kartik shows an overall continuation to the interest rate hike. "
2021-10-11,'Naya Luga' - Nabil Bank's Dashain Video Message,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/naya-luga-nabil-banks-dashain-video-message-2021-10-11,"Following the huge success of the video produced by Nabil Bank on the occasion of Dashain last year, the bank has unveiled a new video titled ""Naya Luga"" this year. The new video is based on the story of Nepalis living in the city who return to their villages to celebrate the great festival of Dashain. This story is also the autobiography of all Nepalis. In the video, a father works in the city. His daughter's phone rings from home, asking him to fetch new clothes in Dashain, and he returns to the village after shopping for Dashain for the happiness of his daughter and wife. On the way back, the road gets damaged and gets jammed, but for the love and happiness of the family, they walk all night to the village. This story is presented in a very poignant way in the video. Upon reaching home, the daughter, mother, and daughter's friend are all happily preparing to celebrate Dashain. This is when the video conveys the message that one should do something in the village instead of going to the city for work. Furthermore, the video also conveys a message that you can meet your family safely and share happiness in Dashain in a simple way.  Following the huge success of the video produced by Nabil Bank on the occasion of Dashain last year, the bank has unveiled a new video titled ""Naya Luga"" this year. The new video is based on the story of Nepalis living in the city who return to their villages to celebrate the great festival of Dashain. This story is also the autobiography of all Nepalis. In the video, a father works in the city. His daughter's phone rings from home, asking him to fetch new clothes in Dashain, and he returns to the village after shopping for Dashain for the happiness of his daughter and wife. On the way back, the road gets damaged and gets jammed, but for the love and happiness of the family, they walk all night to the village. This story is presented in a very poignant way in the video. Upon reaching home, the daughter, mother, and daughter's friend are all happily preparing to celebrate Dashain. This is when the video conveys the message that one should do something in the village instead of going to the city for work. Furthermore, the video also conveys a message that you can meet your family safely and share happiness in Dashain in a simple way.  Following the huge success of the video produced by Nabil Bank on the occasion of Dashain last year, the bank has unveiled a new video titled ""Naya Luga"" this year. The new video is based on the story of Nepalis living in the city who return to their villages to celebrate the great festival of Dashain. This story is also the autobiography of all Nepalis. In the video, a father works in the city. His daughter's phone rings from home, asking him to fetch new clothes in Dashain, and he returns to the village after shopping for Dashain for the happiness of his daughter and wife. On the way back, the road gets damaged and gets jammed, but for the love and happiness of the family, they walk all night to the village. This story is presented in a very poignant way in the video. Upon reaching home, the daughter, mother, and daughter's friend are all happily preparing to celebrate Dashain. This is when the video conveys the message that one should do something in the village instead of going to the city for work. Furthermore, the video also conveys a message that you can meet your family safely and share happiness in Dashain in a simple way.  "
2021-10-11,Central Bank Unveils New Guidelines to Make Banking System Transparent and Customer-Friendly; Limit on Margin Loans Unaltered,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/central-bank-unveils-new-guidelines-to-make-banking-system-transparent-and-customer-friendly-limit-on-margin-loans-unaltered-2021-10-11,"Banks and financial institutions are now prohibited from issuing random notices to debtors who have not repaid their loans. Banks and financial institutions will now be able to issue a public notice for loan recovery only after six months of non-recovery of loans. The central bank made such an arrangement by issuing a unified guideline to BFIs today. For the recovery of a loan that has been in circulation for a period of more than one year, at least six months should have elapsed before the unveiling of public notice and collateral auction proceedings. From the new guideline, Nepal Rastra Bank has also directed banks and financial institutions to make their earnings per share public. From now on, banks and financial institutions will have to publish their earnings per share annually. NRB has also made it mandatory for BFIs to keep 20 percent of the amount accounted for in the 'Statement of Other Comprehensive Income' in the reserve fund. Only the remaining 80 percent will then be available for distribution. Provision has also been made prohibiting a shareholder or representative to vote in any discussion in the general meeting regarding the accountability of the work they have done, missed to do, wrongly done, or done with self-interest. NRB has tightened the rules to open extension counters. The approval of NRB has been made mandatory to open extension counters in Kathmandu Valley and Kathmandu Metropolitan City. The central bank has also added further restrictions while opening a liaison office. Opening liaison offices in Karnali and Far Western Provinces does not require the central bank's approval. In the rest of the states, approval will have to be obtained from NRB. Furthermore, liaison offices will not be allowed to collect deposits and forward loans. Provision has been made for not giving any type of loan at any rate below the base rate. Earlier, the interest rate on loans to the impoverished was lower than the base rate. Additionally, banks and financial institutions are now able to close accounts with zero balance that have not been operational for the past 10 years by publishing a public notice. Furthermore, NRB has also given relief regarding bonds via the new directive. From now on, if a bond is issued such that it contributes to resource mobilization, there is no need to deposit money in the payment fund. Earlier, it had to be deposited proportionally. NRB has provided the facility to perceive the bonds issued by microfinance institutions as poor class loans. According to the new provision, the difference in interest rates on different types of savings accounts cannot be more than 2 percentage points. Furthermore, no bank or financial institution will be allowed to give gifts to customers for the purpose of deposit collection and business expansion. Lately, banks and financial institutions have been offering various gifts to financial customers in the name of raising deposits when liquidity in the banking system was uneasy. Now it is forbidden to do so. As such, BFIs will not be allowed to run any kind of gift / lottery / competition/prize program. Similarly, banks and financial institutions will not be allowed to provide any type of financial services unilaterally without the permission of the customer. If any service fee is charged for such services provided without the permission of the customer, an additional 10 percent will have to be credited to the customer's account. This provision is expected to stop the wrong practice of charging fees by banks and financial institutions under various headings. Banks and financial institutions are now prohibited from issuing random notices to debtors who have not repaid their loans. Banks and financial institutions will now be able to issue a public notice for loan recovery only after six months of non-recovery of loans. The central bank made such an arrangement by issuing a unified guideline to BFIs today. For the recovery of a loan that has been in circulation for a period of more than one year, at least six months should have elapsed before the unveiling of public notice and collateral auction proceedings. From the new guideline, Nepal Rastra Bank has also directed banks and financial institutions to make their earnings per share public. From now on, banks and financial institutions will have to publish their earnings per share annually. NRB has also made it mandatory for BFIs to keep 20 percent of the amount accounted for in the 'Statement of Other Comprehensive Income' in the reserve fund. Only the remaining 80 percent will then be available for distribution. Provision has also been made prohibiting a shareholder or representative to vote in any discussion in the general meeting regarding the accountability of the work they have done, missed to do, wrongly done, or done with self-interest. NRB has tightened the rules to open extension counters. The approval of NRB has been made mandatory to open extension counters in Kathmandu Valley and Kathmandu Metropolitan City. The central bank has also added further restrictions while opening a liaison office. Opening liaison offices in Karnali and Far Western Provinces does not require the central bank's approval. In the rest of the states, approval will have to be obtained from NRB. Furthermore, liaison offices will not be allowed to collect deposits and forward loans. Provision has been made for not giving any type of loan at any rate below the base rate. Earlier, the interest rate on loans to the impoverished was lower than the base rate. Additionally, banks and financial institutions are now able to close accounts with zero balance that have not been operational for the past 10 years by publishing a public notice. Furthermore, NRB has also given relief regarding bonds via the new directive. From now on, if a bond is issued such that it contributes to resource mobilization, there is no need to deposit money in the payment fund. Earlier, it had to be deposited proportionally. NRB has provided the facility to perceive the bonds issued by microfinance institutions as poor class loans. According to the new provision, the difference in interest rates on different types of savings accounts cannot be more than 2 percentage points. Furthermore, no bank or financial institution will be allowed to give gifts to customers for the purpose of deposit collection and business expansion. Lately, banks and financial institutions have been offering various gifts to financial customers in the name of raising deposits when liquidity in the banking system was uneasy. Now it is forbidden to do so. As such, BFIs will not be allowed to run any kind of gift / lottery / competition/prize program. Similarly, banks and financial institutions will not be allowed to provide any type of financial services unilaterally without the permission of the customer. If any service fee is charged for such services provided without the permission of the customer, an additional 10 percent will have to be credited to the customer's account. This provision is expected to stop the wrong practice of charging fees by banks and financial institutions under various headings. Banks and financial institutions are now prohibited from issuing random notices to debtors who have not repaid their loans. Banks and financial institutions will now be able to issue a public notice for loan recovery only after six months of non-recovery of loans. The central bank made such an arrangement by issuing a unified guideline to BFIs today. For the recovery of a loan that has been in circulation for a period of more than one year, at least six months should have elapsed before the unveiling of public notice and collateral auction proceedings. From the new guideline, Nepal Rastra Bank has also directed banks and financial institutions to make their earnings per share public. From now on, banks and financial institutions will have to publish their earnings per share annually. NRB has also made it mandatory for BFIs to keep 20 percent of the amount accounted for in the 'Statement of Other Comprehensive Income' in the reserve fund. Only the remaining 80 percent will then be available for distribution. Provision has also been made prohibiting a shareholder or representative to vote in any discussion in the general meeting regarding the accountability of the work they have done, missed to do, wrongly done, or done with self-interest. NRB has tightened the rules to open extension counters. The approval of NRB has been made mandatory to open extension counters in Kathmandu Valley and Kathmandu Metropolitan City. The central bank has also added further restrictions while opening a liaison office. Opening liaison offices in Karnali and Far Western Provinces does not require the central bank's approval. In the rest of the states, approval will have to be obtained from NRB. Furthermore, liaison offices will not be allowed to collect deposits and forward loans. Provision has been made for not giving any type of loan at any rate below the base rate. Earlier, the interest rate on loans to the impoverished was lower than the base rate. Additionally, banks and financial institutions are now able to close accounts with zero balance that have not been operational for the past 10 years by publishing a public notice. Furthermore, NRB has also given relief regarding bonds via the new directive. From now on, if a bond is issued such that it contributes to resource mobilization, there is no need to deposit money in the payment fund. Earlier, it had to be deposited proportionally. NRB has provided the facility to perceive the bonds issued by microfinance institutions as poor class loans. According to the new provision, the difference in interest rates on different types of savings accounts cannot be more than 2 percentage points. Furthermore, no bank or financial institution will be allowed to give gifts to customers for the purpose of deposit collection and business expansion. Lately, banks and financial institutions have been offering various gifts to financial customers in the name of raising deposits when liquidity in the banking system was uneasy. Now it is forbidden to do so. As such, BFIs will not be allowed to run any kind of gift / lottery / competition/prize program. Similarly, banks and financial institutions will not be allowed to provide any type of financial services unilaterally without the permission of the customer. If any service fee is charged for such services provided without the permission of the customer, an additional 10 percent will have to be credited to the customer's account. This provision is expected to stop the wrong practice of charging fees by banks and financial institutions under various headings. "
2021-10-06,"Nabil Bank brings Dashain Dhamaka Campaign; NOW ENJOY cashback UPTO Rs 1500 IN Daraz, BIGMART AND MEROKIRANA",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-brings-dashain-dhamaka-campaign-now-enjoy-cashback-upto-rs-1500-in-daraz-bigmart-and-merokirana-2021-10-06,"On the auspicious occasion of Bijaya Dashami 2078, Nabil Bank has launched a ‘Dashain Dhamaka Campaign’ to provide cashback offers to its debit and credit cardholders. The Bank has tied up with various shopping platforms namely Daraz, Big Mart, and Kirana Pasal for this Cashback Campaign so that its customers can enjoy amazing cashback discounts during the campaign period. Under this campaign, Nabil Debit or Credit cardholders will be able to enjoy 15% cashback with a maximum limit of NPR 1,500/- (per transaction) while shopping in Kirana during the period of 4th – 11th October 2021. Similarly, Debit or Credit cardholders will be able to enjoy a 10% discount with a maximum ceiling limit of NRR 300/- (per transaction) while shopping in Big Mart on 7th October 2021. In addition to this, Nabil’s cardholders can enjoy a weekly benefit of 10% discount with the maximum limit of NPR 500/- every Friday while shopping from Daraz.  Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network of 135 branches, 184 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank has been aiming for superior service delivery to provide enhanced value to the customers. On the auspicious occasion of Bijaya Dashami 2078, Nabil Bank has launched a ‘Dashain Dhamaka Campaign’ to provide cashback offers to its debit and credit cardholders. The Bank has tied up with various shopping platforms namely Daraz, Big Mart, and Kirana Pasal for this Cashback Campaign so that its customers can enjoy amazing cashback discounts during the campaign period. Under this campaign, Nabil Debit or Credit cardholders will be able to enjoy 15% cashback with a maximum limit of NPR 1,500/- (per transaction) while shopping in Kirana during the period of 4th – 11th October 2021. Similarly, Debit or Credit cardholders will be able to enjoy a 10% discount with a maximum ceiling limit of NRR 300/- (per transaction) while shopping in Big Mart on 7th October 2021. In addition to this, Nabil’s cardholders can enjoy a weekly benefit of 10% discount with the maximum limit of NPR 500/- every Friday while shopping from Daraz.  Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network of 135 branches, 184 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank has been aiming for superior service delivery to provide enhanced value to the customers. On the auspicious occasion of Bijaya Dashami 2078, Nabil Bank has launched a ‘Dashain Dhamaka Campaign’ to provide cashback offers to its debit and credit cardholders. The Bank has tied up with various shopping platforms namely Daraz, Big Mart, and Kirana Pasal for this Cashback Campaign so that its customers can enjoy amazing cashback discounts during the campaign period. Under this campaign, Nabil Debit or Credit cardholders will be able to enjoy 15% cashback with a maximum limit of NPR 1,500/- (per transaction) while shopping in Kirana during the period of 4th – 11th October 2021. Similarly, Debit or Credit cardholders will be able to enjoy a 10% discount with a maximum ceiling limit of NRR 300/- (per transaction) while shopping in Big Mart on 7th October 2021. In addition to this, Nabil’s cardholders can enjoy a weekly benefit of 10% discount with the maximum limit of NPR 500/- every Friday while shopping from Daraz.  Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network of 135 branches, 184 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank has been aiming for superior service delivery to provide enhanced value to the customers. "
2021-09-30,Nabil Bank bags Leading Partner Bank in Nepal award from ADB TSCFP for second time in a row,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-bags-leading-partner-bank-in-nepal-award-from-adb-tscfp-for-second-time-in-a-row-2021-09-30,"Nabil Bank Limited has been recognized as the Leading Partner Bank in Nepal for 2021 by Asian Development Bank - Trade & Supply Chain Finance Program (TSCFP). This is the second time in a row for Nabil Bank to be awarded this award. ADB's TSCFP fills market gaps for trade finance by providing guarantees and loans to banks to support trade. Trade Finance Program empowers countries to meet Sustainable Development Goals by closing market gaps through guarantees and loans.  As stated by ADB trade finance program announcement, Nabil Bank has recorded the most transaction with TSCFP in Nepal from 1 July 2020 to 30 June 2021. The Bank is operating with a wide network with 135 branches, 184 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank Limited has been recognized as the Leading Partner Bank in Nepal for 2021 by Asian Development Bank - Trade & Supply Chain Finance Program (TSCFP). This is the second time in a row for Nabil Bank to be awarded this award. ADB's TSCFP fills market gaps for trade finance by providing guarantees and loans to banks to support trade. Trade Finance Program empowers countries to meet Sustainable Development Goals by closing market gaps through guarantees and loans.  As stated by ADB trade finance program announcement, Nabil Bank has recorded the most transaction with TSCFP in Nepal from 1 July 2020 to 30 June 2021. The Bank is operating with a wide network with 135 branches, 184 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank Limited has been recognized as the Leading Partner Bank in Nepal for 2021 by Asian Development Bank - Trade & Supply Chain Finance Program (TSCFP). This is the second time in a row for Nabil Bank to be awarded this award. ADB's TSCFP fills market gaps for trade finance by providing guarantees and loans to banks to support trade. Trade Finance Program empowers countries to meet Sustainable Development Goals by closing market gaps through guarantees and loans.  As stated by ADB trade finance program announcement, Nabil Bank has recorded the most transaction with TSCFP in Nepal from 1 July 2020 to 30 June 2021. The Bank is operating with a wide network with 135 branches, 184 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. "
2021-09-26,Nabil Bank to extend affordable loans to farmers and entrepreneurs of Galchhi Gaupalika in Dhading; aims to promote sustainable rural development by empowering local agriculture and small industries,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-extend-affordable-loans-to-farmers-and-entrepreneurs-of-galchhi-gaupalika-in-dhading-aims-to-promote-sustainable-rural-development-by-empowering-local-agriculture-and-small-industries-2021-09-26,"Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Galchhi gaupalika of Dhading to promote rural agriculture and entrepreneurship among the locals of the local unit.  The MoU was signed between Bagmati head of the bank Mr. Amit Shrestha, and head of gaupalika Mr. Krishna Hari Shrestha amid a program, as per the media statement. With this understanding, the bank will extend subsidized loans for agro and other businesses to the entrepreneurs and farmers of the local unit who are trained enough to run those businesses following the forwarded recommendation from the local unit whereas will also conduct different events to raise financial literacy among the local residents, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Galchhi gaupalika of Dhading to promote rural agriculture and entrepreneurship among the locals of the local unit.  The MoU was signed between Bagmati head of the bank Mr. Amit Shrestha, and head of gaupalika Mr. Krishna Hari Shrestha amid a program, as per the media statement. With this understanding, the bank will extend subsidized loans for agro and other businesses to the entrepreneurs and farmers of the local unit who are trained enough to run those businesses following the forwarded recommendation from the local unit whereas will also conduct different events to raise financial literacy among the local residents, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Galchhi gaupalika of Dhading to promote rural agriculture and entrepreneurship among the locals of the local unit.  The MoU was signed between Bagmati head of the bank Mr. Amit Shrestha, and head of gaupalika Mr. Krishna Hari Shrestha amid a program, as per the media statement. With this understanding, the bank will extend subsidized loans for agro and other businesses to the entrepreneurs and farmers of the local unit who are trained enough to run those businesses following the forwarded recommendation from the local unit whereas will also conduct different events to raise financial literacy among the local residents, as per the media statement. "
2021-09-23,Nabil Digo Banking collaborates with CNI- Women Leadership Forum; organizes interaction with women stakeholders to promote financial growth of women via bank’s subsidized loan facility,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-digo-banking-collaborates-with-cni-women-leadership-forum-organizes-interaction-with-women-stakeholders-to-promote-financial-growth-of-women-via-banks-subsidized-loan-facility-2021-09-23,"Nabil Digo Banking and Chamber of Nepalese Industries- Women Leadership Forum have jointly organized an interaction event to promote women entrepreneurship and a women-focused subsidized loan facility of the bank.  The event was addressed by CNI- WLF coordinator Ms. Chhaya Sharma, member Ms. Asha Rana Adhikari, CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Anil Keshari Shah among others who highlighted the need of promoting women’s access in the field of entrepreneurial development, as per the media statement. Nabil Digo Banking and Chamber of Nepalese Industries- Women Leadership Forum have jointly organized an interaction event to promote women entrepreneurship and a women-focused subsidized loan facility of the bank.  The event was addressed by CNI- WLF coordinator Ms. Chhaya Sharma, member Ms. Asha Rana Adhikari, CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Anil Keshari Shah among others who highlighted the need of promoting women’s access in the field of entrepreneurial development, as per the media statement. Nabil Digo Banking and Chamber of Nepalese Industries- Women Leadership Forum have jointly organized an interaction event to promote women entrepreneurship and a women-focused subsidized loan facility of the bank.  The event was addressed by CNI- WLF coordinator Ms. Chhaya Sharma, member Ms. Asha Rana Adhikari, CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Anil Keshari Shah among others who highlighted the need of promoting women’s access in the field of entrepreneurial development, as per the media statement. "
2021-09-20,Nabil Bank Chairman Poudyal Conferred With Prestigious Prabal Jana Sewa Shree Award on Constitution Day; Dedicates Award to all Effortful Individuals in Banking Sector,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-chairman-poudyal-conferred-with-prestigious-prabal-jana-sewa-shree-award-on-constitution-day-dedicates-award-to-all-effortful-individuals-in-banking-sector-2021-09-20,"Mr. Upendra Poudyal, Nabil Bank Chairman and Asia Pacific Regional Representative for The Global Alliance for Banking on Values has been conferred with the Prabal Jana Sewa Shree award by the President. On the occasion of Constitution Day, President Bidya Devi Bhandari presented various decorations, awards, and medals to 903 individuals. President Bhandari provided the decorations on the recommendation of the Council of Ministers on September 14 in accordance with Article 277 (1) of the Constitution. During a phone conversation with a Sharesansar representative, Poudyal expressed his gratitude to the government for recognizing the efforts of bankers like him towards the nation. Remembering the bankers of his generation and the bankers that have come after him, Poudyal wanted to dedicate this award to all effortful individuals in the banking sector. The Nabil Bank chairman believes that his generation of bankers have successfully passed on the work ethic and governance to bankers that have come after him, and Poudyal takes the award as the government's recognition of the same, along with the banking sector for its integral contribution to the country. Apart from being the Chairman of arguably the most impactful bank of the nation, Poudyal is also active as the Asia Pacific Regional Representative for The Global Alliance for Banking on Values. The Global Alliance for Banking on Values (GABV) is a network of banking leaders from around the world committed to advancing positive change in the banking sector. The organization's collective goal is to change the banking system so that it is more transparent, supports economic, social, and environmental sustainability, and is composed of a diverse range of banking institutions serving the real economy. 1) Under his parental guidance, Nabil Bank has had an impactful contribution to the national treasury. The largest commercial bank is the highest taxpayer from the banking sector. 2) The bank is shifting its focus towards Value-Based Banking and Sustainable Banking by adhering to the principles of The Global Alliance for Banking on Values. Poudyal's involvement in the organization has enabled the bank to personify the banking traits. 3) The commercial bank has played an instrumental role in facilitating the country's export economy. 4) The commercial bank has upgraded the banking standards of the country by collaborating with institutions from across the world. 5) Under Poudyal's chairmanship, Nepal Bankers' Association had a notable contribution towards disaster relief during and after the 2015 Earthquake. 6) Poudyal has always been vocal in redefining the banking sector as a service sector, with its primary inclination towards the greater social good. When asked about one of his biggest accomplishments, Poudyal states that he has successfully passed on the healthy banking culture to the next generation of bankers after his own illustrious banking career. For more insight into the organization and Poudyal's vision of Sustainable Banking in the Nepalese context, refer to this exclusive interview taken by Sharesansar: ""Sustainable Banking Is Not Just Another Banking Scheme, It Is a New Banking Culture"": Interview with Nabil Bank Chairman Upendra Poudyal On the occasion of Constitution Day, the government presented various decorations, awards, and medals to 903 individuals. The decorations and medals conferred include Nepal Ratna to one, Rashtra Gaurav to two, Mahaujjal Rashtradeep First Class to five, Suprasiddha Prabal Janasewa Shree First Class to five, Ujjwal Kirtimaya Rashtradeep Second Class to one, Prasiddha Praval Janasewashri Second Class to 24, Sukirtimaya Rashtradeep to Third Class 39, Suprabal Janasewashree third class to 161 people. Likewise, eight individuals have been awarded the prestigious Rashtradeep fourth, eight have been awarded the Prabal Janasewasri fourth class 319, and Janasewa Shree fifth class to 190, according to the Office of the President. Similarly, the Rastra Yashobadrak Alankar has been given to four persons, Nepal Sewa Praveen to two persons, Samajsewa Ratna to 21 persons, Nepal Pratap Subhushan to 34 persons, Atipaurakh Bhaskar to seven persons, Nepal Pratap Abhushan to 24 persons, Mahapaurakh Bhaskar to three persons and Nepal Pratap Bhushan to 16 persons. The President has awarded the National Service Medal first-class to three persons, Sukirti Medal to 10 persons, Sagarmatha Medal to seven persons, Bravery Medal to seven persons, Bikas Ratna Medal to one person, and Natural Disaster Relief Medal to nine persons. Mr. Upendra Poudyal, Nabil Bank Chairman and Asia Pacific Regional Representative for The Global Alliance for Banking on Values has been conferred with the Prabal Jana Sewa Shree award by the President. On the occasion of Constitution Day, President Bidya Devi Bhandari presented various decorations, awards, and medals to 903 individuals. President Bhandari provided the decorations on the recommendation of the Council of Ministers on September 14 in accordance with Article 277 (1) of the Constitution. During a phone conversation with a Sharesansar representative, Poudyal expressed his gratitude to the government for recognizing the efforts of bankers like him towards the nation. Remembering the bankers of his generation and the bankers that have come after him, Poudyal wanted to dedicate this award to all effortful individuals in the banking sector. The Nabil Bank chairman believes that his generation of bankers have successfully passed on the work ethic and governance to bankers that have come after him, and Poudyal takes the award as the government's recognition of the same, along with the banking sector for its integral contribution to the country. Apart from being the Chairman of arguably the most impactful bank of the nation, Poudyal is also active as the Asia Pacific Regional Representative for The Global Alliance for Banking on Values. The Global Alliance for Banking on Values (GABV) is a network of banking leaders from around the world committed to advancing positive change in the banking sector. The organization's collective goal is to change the banking system so that it is more transparent, supports economic, social, and environmental sustainability, and is composed of a diverse range of banking institutions serving the real economy. 1) Under his parental guidance, Nabil Bank has had an impactful contribution to the national treasury. The largest commercial bank is the highest taxpayer from the banking sector. 2) The bank is shifting its focus towards Value-Based Banking and Sustainable Banking by adhering to the principles of The Global Alliance for Banking on Values. Poudyal's involvement in the organization has enabled the bank to personify the banking traits. 3) The commercial bank has played an instrumental role in facilitating the country's export economy. 4) The commercial bank has upgraded the banking standards of the country by collaborating with institutions from across the world. 5) Under Poudyal's chairmanship, Nepal Bankers' Association had a notable contribution towards disaster relief during and after the 2015 Earthquake. 6) Poudyal has always been vocal in redefining the banking sector as a service sector, with its primary inclination towards the greater social good. When asked about one of his biggest accomplishments, Poudyal states that he has successfully passed on the healthy banking culture to the next generation of bankers after his own illustrious banking career. For more insight into the organization and Poudyal's vision of Sustainable Banking in the Nepalese context, refer to this exclusive interview taken by Sharesansar: ""Sustainable Banking Is Not Just Another Banking Scheme, It Is a New Banking Culture"": Interview with Nabil Bank Chairman Upendra Poudyal On the occasion of Constitution Day, the government presented various decorations, awards, and medals to 903 individuals. The decorations and medals conferred include Nepal Ratna to one, Rashtra Gaurav to two, Mahaujjal Rashtradeep First Class to five, Suprasiddha Prabal Janasewa Shree First Class to five, Ujjwal Kirtimaya Rashtradeep Second Class to one, Prasiddha Praval Janasewashri Second Class to 24, Sukirtimaya Rashtradeep to Third Class 39, Suprabal Janasewashree third class to 161 people. Likewise, eight individuals have been awarded the prestigious Rashtradeep fourth, eight have been awarded the Prabal Janasewasri fourth class 319, and Janasewa Shree fifth class to 190, according to the Office of the President. Similarly, the Rastra Yashobadrak Alankar has been given to four persons, Nepal Sewa Praveen to two persons, Samajsewa Ratna to 21 persons, Nepal Pratap Subhushan to 34 persons, Atipaurakh Bhaskar to seven persons, Nepal Pratap Abhushan to 24 persons, Mahapaurakh Bhaskar to three persons and Nepal Pratap Bhushan to 16 persons. The President has awarded the National Service Medal first-class to three persons, Sukirti Medal to 10 persons, Sagarmatha Medal to seven persons, Bravery Medal to seven persons, Bikas Ratna Medal to one person, and Natural Disaster Relief Medal to nine persons. Mr. Upendra Poudyal, Nabil Bank Chairman and Asia Pacific Regional Representative for The Global Alliance for Banking on Values has been conferred with the Prabal Jana Sewa Shree award by the President. On the occasion of Constitution Day, President Bidya Devi Bhandari presented various decorations, awards, and medals to 903 individuals. President Bhandari provided the decorations on the recommendation of the Council of Ministers on September 14 in accordance with Article 277 (1) of the Constitution. During a phone conversation with a Sharesansar representative, Poudyal expressed his gratitude to the government for recognizing the efforts of bankers like him towards the nation. Remembering the bankers of his generation and the bankers that have come after him, Poudyal wanted to dedicate this award to all effortful individuals in the banking sector. The Nabil Bank chairman believes that his generation of bankers have successfully passed on the work ethic and governance to bankers that have come after him, and Poudyal takes the award as the government's recognition of the same, along with the banking sector for its integral contribution to the country. Apart from being the Chairman of arguably the most impactful bank of the nation, Poudyal is also active as the Asia Pacific Regional Representative for The Global Alliance for Banking on Values. The Global Alliance for Banking on Values (GABV) is a network of banking leaders from around the world committed to advancing positive change in the banking sector. The organization's collective goal is to change the banking system so that it is more transparent, supports economic, social, and environmental sustainability, and is composed of a diverse range of banking institutions serving the real economy. 1) Under his parental guidance, Nabil Bank has had an impactful contribution to the national treasury. The largest commercial bank is the highest taxpayer from the banking sector. 2) The bank is shifting its focus towards Value-Based Banking and Sustainable Banking by adhering to the principles of The Global Alliance for Banking on Values. Poudyal's involvement in the organization has enabled the bank to personify the banking traits. 3) The commercial bank has played an instrumental role in facilitating the country's export economy. 4) The commercial bank has upgraded the banking standards of the country by collaborating with institutions from across the world. 5) Under Poudyal's chairmanship, Nepal Bankers' Association had a notable contribution towards disaster relief during and after the 2015 Earthquake. 6) Poudyal has always been vocal in redefining the banking sector as a service sector, with its primary inclination towards the greater social good. When asked about one of his biggest accomplishments, Poudyal states that he has successfully passed on the healthy banking culture to the next generation of bankers after his own illustrious banking career. For more insight into the organization and Poudyal's vision of Sustainable Banking in the Nepalese context, refer to this exclusive interview taken by Sharesansar: ""Sustainable Banking Is Not Just Another Banking Scheme, It Is a New Banking Culture"": Interview with Nabil Bank Chairman Upendra Poudyal On the occasion of Constitution Day, the government presented various decorations, awards, and medals to 903 individuals. The decorations and medals conferred include Nepal Ratna to one, Rashtra Gaurav to two, Mahaujjal Rashtradeep First Class to five, Suprasiddha Prabal Janasewa Shree First Class to five, Ujjwal Kirtimaya Rashtradeep Second Class to one, Prasiddha Praval Janasewashri Second Class to 24, Sukirtimaya Rashtradeep to Third Class 39, Suprabal Janasewashree third class to 161 people. Likewise, eight individuals have been awarded the prestigious Rashtradeep fourth, eight have been awarded the Prabal Janasewasri fourth class 319, and Janasewa Shree fifth class to 190, according to the Office of the President. Similarly, the Rastra Yashobadrak Alankar has been given to four persons, Nepal Sewa Praveen to two persons, Samajsewa Ratna to 21 persons, Nepal Pratap Subhushan to 34 persons, Atipaurakh Bhaskar to seven persons, Nepal Pratap Abhushan to 24 persons, Mahapaurakh Bhaskar to three persons and Nepal Pratap Bhushan to 16 persons. The President has awarded the National Service Medal first-class to three persons, Sukirti Medal to 10 persons, Sagarmatha Medal to seven persons, Bravery Medal to seven persons, Bikas Ratna Medal to one person, and Natural Disaster Relief Medal to nine persons. "
2021-09-17,Nabil Bank reveals Attractive Dashain Offer; to provide 9.26% interest for individual FD customers with additional 0.50% premium,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-reveals-attractive-dashain-offer-to-provide-926-interest-for-individual-fd-customers-with-additional-050-premium-2021-09-17,"After the huge success of last year’s festive offer, Nabil Bank has yet again announced a similar special festive offer this year to provide the best possible interest rate to its customers. As the main festival of Nepalese Dashain is right at our doorsteps, Nabil Bank is offering an attractive interest rate of 9.26% p.a. (includes additional 0.5% premium) on individual fixed deposits for the tenure of 1 year and above effective from 1st Asojh 2078 (17 September 2021). Through this Dashain offer, all Nepalese can enjoy higher interest rates on their hard-earned Fixed Deposits by simply visiting any nearby Nabil branches.  Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal with a wide network of 135 branches, 185 ATMs, 5 extension counters, and more than 1500+ Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With a banking experience of 37 years, our highly experienced team along with a robust/secured banking system, we have been constantly providing superior service delivery for enhancing the value to our customers. After the huge success of last year’s festive offer, Nabil Bank has yet again announced a similar special festive offer this year to provide the best possible interest rate to its customers. As the main festival of Nepalese Dashain is right at our doorsteps, Nabil Bank is offering an attractive interest rate of 9.26% p.a. (includes additional 0.5% premium) on individual fixed deposits for the tenure of 1 year and above effective from 1st Asojh 2078 (17 September 2021). Through this Dashain offer, all Nepalese can enjoy higher interest rates on their hard-earned Fixed Deposits by simply visiting any nearby Nabil branches.  Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal with a wide network of 135 branches, 185 ATMs, 5 extension counters, and more than 1500+ Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With a banking experience of 37 years, our highly experienced team along with a robust/secured banking system, we have been constantly providing superior service delivery for enhancing the value to our customers. After the huge success of last year’s festive offer, Nabil Bank has yet again announced a similar special festive offer this year to provide the best possible interest rate to its customers. As the main festival of Nepalese Dashain is right at our doorsteps, Nabil Bank is offering an attractive interest rate of 9.26% p.a. (includes additional 0.5% premium) on individual fixed deposits for the tenure of 1 year and above effective from 1st Asojh 2078 (17 September 2021). Through this Dashain offer, all Nepalese can enjoy higher interest rates on their hard-earned Fixed Deposits by simply visiting any nearby Nabil branches.  Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal with a wide network of 135 branches, 185 ATMs, 5 extension counters, and more than 1500+ Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With a banking experience of 37 years, our highly experienced team along with a robust/secured banking system, we have been constantly providing superior service delivery for enhancing the value to our customers. "
2021-09-16,Commercial Banks Raise Interest Rates; Here's the Updated Interest Profile of Every Bank Compared to Previous Month's Rates,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-raise-interest-rates-heres-the-updated-interest-profile-of-every-bank-compared-to-previous-months-rates-2021-09-16,"Commercial Banks have updated the interest rates profile for the month of Ashwin. The update is effective from Ashwin 01. It seems that commercial banks have raised the interest rates for the month, an effect likely caused by decreasing liquidity in the banking system. The interest rate hike is the highest seen after the pandemic so far. While it is not a strict rule written in stone, the capital market and the interest rate of an economy have an inverse relationship. The performance of the NEPSE index in the recent past can be partly attributed to slashed interest rates, a move taken by banks to compensate for piling liquidity during the pandemic. 

Investors are concerned as to what effect the interest rate hike will bring to NEPSE in the near future. While it is given that the change will surely affect the capital market, investors are more concerned about the scale of this effect, and whether it will have considerable implications on the market trend.  It is seen that the highest rate hike has been made on fixed deposits. This might be a reflection of commercial banks' incentive to collect longer-term capital to ensure greater flexibility in deposit mobilization.  NMB Bank Limited (NMB), Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL), Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA), and Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL) have offered maximum interest rates i.e. above 9.5% on fixed deposits. Sunrise Bank is the only bank that has hiked the interest rate on FD higher than 10%.   4.2 4.32 Commercial Banks have updated the interest rates profile for the month of Ashwin. The update is effective from Ashwin 01. It seems that commercial banks have raised the interest rates for the month, an effect likely caused by decreasing liquidity in the banking system. The interest rate hike is the highest seen after the pandemic so far. While it is not a strict rule written in stone, the capital market and the interest rate of an economy have an inverse relationship. The performance of the NEPSE index in the recent past can be partly attributed to slashed interest rates, a move taken by banks to compensate for piling liquidity during the pandemic. 

Investors are concerned as to what effect the interest rate hike will bring to NEPSE in the near future. While it is given that the change will surely affect the capital market, investors are more concerned about the scale of this effect, and whether it will have considerable implications on the market trend.  It is seen that the highest rate hike has been made on fixed deposits. This might be a reflection of commercial banks' incentive to collect longer-term capital to ensure greater flexibility in deposit mobilization.  NMB Bank Limited (NMB), Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL), Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA), and Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL) have offered maximum interest rates i.e. above 9.5% on fixed deposits. Sunrise Bank is the only bank that has hiked the interest rate on FD higher than 10%.   4.2 4.32 Commercial Banks have updated the interest rates profile for the month of Ashwin. The update is effective from Ashwin 01. It seems that commercial banks have raised the interest rates for the month, an effect likely caused by decreasing liquidity in the banking system. The interest rate hike is the highest seen after the pandemic so far. While it is not a strict rule written in stone, the capital market and the interest rate of an economy have an inverse relationship. The performance of the NEPSE index in the recent past can be partly attributed to slashed interest rates, a move taken by banks to compensate for piling liquidity during the pandemic. 

Investors are concerned as to what effect the interest rate hike will bring to NEPSE in the near future. While it is given that the change will surely affect the capital market, investors are more concerned about the scale of this effect, and whether it will have considerable implications on the market trend.  It is seen that the highest rate hike has been made on fixed deposits. This might be a reflection of commercial banks' incentive to collect longer-term capital to ensure greater flexibility in deposit mobilization.  NMB Bank Limited (NMB), Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL), Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA), and Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL) have offered maximum interest rates i.e. above 9.5% on fixed deposits. Sunrise Bank is the only bank that has hiked the interest rate on FD higher than 10%.   4.2 4.32 "
2021-09-12,Nabil Bank signs tripartite agreement with Nepal Youth Federation and Pancheswor Gaupalika; aims to promote youth entrepreneurship with subsidized loans and improved banking access,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-signs-tripartite-agreement-with-nepal-youth-federation-and-pancheswor-gaupalika-aims-to-promote-youth-entrepreneurship-with-subsidized-loans-and-improved-banking-access-2021-09-12,"Nabil Bank, Nepalese Youth Federation, and Pancheswor Gaupalika of Baitadi have entered into a tripartite agreement to help the youth entrepreneurs of the Gaupalika to have access to affordable credit services and to banking facilities.  The agreement was signed between Director of Nabil Deego Banking Mr. Leela Prasad Ojha, Admin head of Youth Federation Dr. Babu ram Dhungana and head of the gaupalika Mr. Gorakh Bahadur Chand amid a program. Nabil Bank, Nepalese Youth Federation, and Pancheswor Gaupalika of Baitadi have entered into a tripartite agreement to help the youth entrepreneurs of the Gaupalika to have access to affordable credit services and to banking facilities.  The agreement was signed between Director of Nabil Deego Banking Mr. Leela Prasad Ojha, Admin head of Youth Federation Dr. Babu ram Dhungana and head of the gaupalika Mr. Gorakh Bahadur Chand amid a program. Nabil Bank, Nepalese Youth Federation, and Pancheswor Gaupalika of Baitadi have entered into a tripartite agreement to help the youth entrepreneurs of the Gaupalika to have access to affordable credit services and to banking facilities.  The agreement was signed between Director of Nabil Deego Banking Mr. Leela Prasad Ojha, Admin head of Youth Federation Dr. Babu ram Dhungana and head of the gaupalika Mr. Gorakh Bahadur Chand amid a program. "
2021-09-06,Nabil Bank launches Nabil Digi WorkSpace; brings in operation its digital workspace to increase efficiency among its staff members,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-nabil-digi-workspace-brings-in-operation-its-digital-workspace-to-increase-efficiency-among-its-staff-members-2021-09-06,"In order to remain at the forefront in every aspect, mainly when it comes to offering digital products & services, Nabil Bank has always tried to be one step ahead. In this context, the Bank has recently upgraded its old intranet with ‘Nabil Digi Workspace’ to enhance the staff efficiency level. While officially launching Nabil Digi Workspace, Nabil Bank’s Chairman – Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal emphasized that a paperless work environment is the need of the hour. In the same launch program, Acting Chief Executive Officer – Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya approved the task remotely to the live audience. In Nabil Digi Workspace, Nabil’s employees will be able to carry out their daily tasks/work through a digital process. They will easily be able to find and track their daily tasks with one simple click. With the up-gradation of its intranet site, the Bank aims to significantly reduce its turnaround time and provide quicker service to its valued customers. Moving forward, the approving authorities of the Bank will be receiving system alerts and will be able to view and approve customer requests in a paperless environment. At the same time, the Bank has already started implementation of world-renowned Business Process Management (BPM) system to automate its lending, customer on-boarding, etc., usage of robotic process automation, machine learning, and artificial intelligence system along with other digital initiatives, which are going to help in our customer-focused mission through automation and digitization. Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has 135 branches and 185 ATM networks all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  The Bank is continuously exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs and aims to be the first digital bank in the country. In order to remain at the forefront in every aspect, mainly when it comes to offering digital products & services, Nabil Bank has always tried to be one step ahead. In this context, the Bank has recently upgraded its old intranet with ‘Nabil Digi Workspace’ to enhance the staff efficiency level. While officially launching Nabil Digi Workspace, Nabil Bank’s Chairman – Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal emphasized that a paperless work environment is the need of the hour. In the same launch program, Acting Chief Executive Officer – Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya approved the task remotely to the live audience. In Nabil Digi Workspace, Nabil’s employees will be able to carry out their daily tasks/work through a digital process. They will easily be able to find and track their daily tasks with one simple click. With the up-gradation of its intranet site, the Bank aims to significantly reduce its turnaround time and provide quicker service to its valued customers. Moving forward, the approving authorities of the Bank will be receiving system alerts and will be able to view and approve customer requests in a paperless environment. At the same time, the Bank has already started implementation of world-renowned Business Process Management (BPM) system to automate its lending, customer on-boarding, etc., usage of robotic process automation, machine learning, and artificial intelligence system along with other digital initiatives, which are going to help in our customer-focused mission through automation and digitization. Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has 135 branches and 185 ATM networks all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  The Bank is continuously exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs and aims to be the first digital bank in the country. In order to remain at the forefront in every aspect, mainly when it comes to offering digital products & services, Nabil Bank has always tried to be one step ahead. In this context, the Bank has recently upgraded its old intranet with ‘Nabil Digi Workspace’ to enhance the staff efficiency level. While officially launching Nabil Digi Workspace, Nabil Bank’s Chairman – Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal emphasized that a paperless work environment is the need of the hour. In the same launch program, Acting Chief Executive Officer – Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya approved the task remotely to the live audience. In Nabil Digi Workspace, Nabil’s employees will be able to carry out their daily tasks/work through a digital process. They will easily be able to find and track their daily tasks with one simple click. With the up-gradation of its intranet site, the Bank aims to significantly reduce its turnaround time and provide quicker service to its valued customers. Moving forward, the approving authorities of the Bank will be receiving system alerts and will be able to view and approve customer requests in a paperless environment. At the same time, the Bank has already started implementation of world-renowned Business Process Management (BPM) system to automate its lending, customer on-boarding, etc., usage of robotic process automation, machine learning, and artificial intelligence system along with other digital initiatives, which are going to help in our customer-focused mission through automation and digitization. Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has 135 branches and 185 ATM networks all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  The Bank is continuously exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs and aims to be the first digital bank in the country. "
2021-08-29,Nabil Bank to extend affordable loans to farmers and entrepreneurs of Panauti; aims to promote sustainable rural development by empowering local agriculture and small industries,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-extend-affordable-loans-to-farmers-and-entrepreneurs-of-panauti-aims-to-promote-sustainable-rural-development-by-empowering-local-agriculture-and-small-industries-2021-08-29,"Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Paanchkhal and Panauti Nagarpalika to promote rural agriculture and entrepreneurship among the locals of these Nagarpalika.  The MoU was signed between Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Mayor of Panchkhal Mr. Bhim Neupane, Bagmati Province head of the bank Mr. Amit Shrestha, and Deputy Mayor Ms. Laxmi Danuwar amid a program. With this understanding, the bank will extend subsidized loans for agro and other businesses to the entrepreneurs and farmers of the local unit who are trained enough to run that business following the forwarded recommendation from the Nagarpalika whereas will also conduct different events to raise financial literacy among the local residents, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Paanchkhal and Panauti Nagarpalika to promote rural agriculture and entrepreneurship among the locals of these Nagarpalika.  The MoU was signed between Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Mayor of Panchkhal Mr. Bhim Neupane, Bagmati Province head of the bank Mr. Amit Shrestha, and Deputy Mayor Ms. Laxmi Danuwar amid a program. With this understanding, the bank will extend subsidized loans for agro and other businesses to the entrepreneurs and farmers of the local unit who are trained enough to run that business following the forwarded recommendation from the Nagarpalika whereas will also conduct different events to raise financial literacy among the local residents, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has inked an agreement with Paanchkhal and Panauti Nagarpalika to promote rural agriculture and entrepreneurship among the locals of these Nagarpalika.  The MoU was signed between Deputy CEO of the bank Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Mayor of Panchkhal Mr. Bhim Neupane, Bagmati Province head of the bank Mr. Amit Shrestha, and Deputy Mayor Ms. Laxmi Danuwar amid a program. With this understanding, the bank will extend subsidized loans for agro and other businesses to the entrepreneurs and farmers of the local unit who are trained enough to run that business following the forwarded recommendation from the Nagarpalika whereas will also conduct different events to raise financial literacy among the local residents, as per the media statement. "
2021-08-20,Nabil Bank enters into an agreement with Muktinath Bikas Bank for providing Value Added Services to customers; MoU to mostly benefit customers of Muktinath with modern banking amenities,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-enters-into-an-agreement-with-muktinath-bikas-bank-for-providing-value-added-services-to-customers-mou-to-mostly-benefit-customers-of-muktinath-with-modern-banking-amenities-2021-08-20,"Nabil Bank Limited and Muktinath Bikas Bank Limited have entered into a collaboration to provide various Banking services including Non-Funded Facilities (Letter of Credit/Swift/Guarantee/DAP/DAA and etc.) to the customer of Muktinath Bikas Bank.  Under this strategic partnership, customers of Muktinath Bikas Bank can open Letters of Credit (LC), Document Against Payment (DAP), Document Against Acceptance (DAA), Swift Transfer (TT) & Bank Guarantee (BG) through Nabil Bank. Furthermore, the customers of Muktinath Bikas Bank will now have access to modern banking facilities. Through this collaboration, the Bank anticipates to enlarge the business scope in terms of Deposit, Remittance, Directed Lending, Consortium financing, FX management and so on in the coming days. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank and Mr. Pradyuman Pokharel, CEO of Muktinath Bikas Bank signed the Memorandum of Understanding in the presence of Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, DCEO of Nabil Bank, Mr. Samir Shekhar Bajracharya, DCEO of Mukhtinath Bikash Bank and Mr. Rashik Bhandari, Head - Credit Sales of Mukhtinath Bikash Bank. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah said, “Nabil Bank is pleased to serve the customer base of Muktinath Bikas Bank with extended banking solution through this synergistic effort. We are excited to be the Banking Partner of Muktinath Bikas Bank through this business sharing agreement, and we look forward to providing enhanced customer services to the valued customers of both banks.” Likewise, Mr. Pradyuman Pokharel stated that this business relationship will definitely add value not only to both the Banks but will also provide value added services to the large clientele base of Muktinath Bikas Bank with an EGI (Excellence, Growth, Impact) approach.     Nabil Bank Limited and Muktinath Bikas Bank Limited have entered into a collaboration to provide various Banking services including Non-Funded Facilities (Letter of Credit/Swift/Guarantee/DAP/DAA and etc.) to the customer of Muktinath Bikas Bank.  Under this strategic partnership, customers of Muktinath Bikas Bank can open Letters of Credit (LC), Document Against Payment (DAP), Document Against Acceptance (DAA), Swift Transfer (TT) & Bank Guarantee (BG) through Nabil Bank. Furthermore, the customers of Muktinath Bikas Bank will now have access to modern banking facilities. Through this collaboration, the Bank anticipates to enlarge the business scope in terms of Deposit, Remittance, Directed Lending, Consortium financing, FX management and so on in the coming days. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank and Mr. Pradyuman Pokharel, CEO of Muktinath Bikas Bank signed the Memorandum of Understanding in the presence of Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, DCEO of Nabil Bank, Mr. Samir Shekhar Bajracharya, DCEO of Mukhtinath Bikash Bank and Mr. Rashik Bhandari, Head - Credit Sales of Mukhtinath Bikash Bank. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah said, “Nabil Bank is pleased to serve the customer base of Muktinath Bikas Bank with extended banking solution through this synergistic effort. We are excited to be the Banking Partner of Muktinath Bikas Bank through this business sharing agreement, and we look forward to providing enhanced customer services to the valued customers of both banks.” Likewise, Mr. Pradyuman Pokharel stated that this business relationship will definitely add value not only to both the Banks but will also provide value added services to the large clientele base of Muktinath Bikas Bank with an EGI (Excellence, Growth, Impact) approach.     Nabil Bank Limited and Muktinath Bikas Bank Limited have entered into a collaboration to provide various Banking services including Non-Funded Facilities (Letter of Credit/Swift/Guarantee/DAP/DAA and etc.) to the customer of Muktinath Bikas Bank.  Under this strategic partnership, customers of Muktinath Bikas Bank can open Letters of Credit (LC), Document Against Payment (DAP), Document Against Acceptance (DAA), Swift Transfer (TT) & Bank Guarantee (BG) through Nabil Bank. Furthermore, the customers of Muktinath Bikas Bank will now have access to modern banking facilities. Through this collaboration, the Bank anticipates to enlarge the business scope in terms of Deposit, Remittance, Directed Lending, Consortium financing, FX management and so on in the coming days. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank and Mr. Pradyuman Pokharel, CEO of Muktinath Bikas Bank signed the Memorandum of Understanding in the presence of Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, DCEO of Nabil Bank, Mr. Samir Shekhar Bajracharya, DCEO of Mukhtinath Bikash Bank and Mr. Rashik Bhandari, Head - Credit Sales of Mukhtinath Bikash Bank. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah said, “Nabil Bank is pleased to serve the customer base of Muktinath Bikas Bank with extended banking solution through this synergistic effort. We are excited to be the Banking Partner of Muktinath Bikas Bank through this business sharing agreement, and we look forward to providing enhanced customer services to the valued customers of both banks.” Likewise, Mr. Pradyuman Pokharel stated that this business relationship will definitely add value not only to both the Banks but will also provide value added services to the large clientele base of Muktinath Bikas Bank with an EGI (Excellence, Growth, Impact) approach.     "
2021-08-19,A Detailed Dive Into Vital Fundamental Figures: Commercial Banks Publish Satisfactory Q4 Report Given the Unique Pandemic-Induced Challenges,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-bank-comparative-draft-2021-08-17,"Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the low-interest-rate environment and bad loans that might occur, banks have reported improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter. In this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks and do a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. As per the net profit of the fourth quarter of FY 2077/78, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 4.50 Arba. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 4.12 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBBL) has a net profit of Rs 3.80 Arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 56 crores. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 2.34 Arba. All commercial banks except 5 have increased net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last year.   The total net profit for the year is Rs 63.30 Arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 52.77 Arba. The overall industry net profit has increased by 19.66%. Distributable profit: As per the distributable profit of the fourth quarter of 2077/78, Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBBL)   is in the lead with a distributable profit of Rs 4.52 Arba. Similarly,  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 4.14 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has a distributable profit of Rs. 3.49  Arba. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) has reported the lowest distributable profit among all the banks of Rs. 34 crores.  Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 21.63 Arba capital and NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with Rs 16.32 Arba paid-up capital.   * ADBL capital doesn't include 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares. With an industry average of Rs 8.72 Arba, 10 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 8.72 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.35 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 20.61 Arba. Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 20 Arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.47 Arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.51 kharba as a deposit. Only 12 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the fourth quarter of FY 2077/78, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.86 kharba, Global IME Bank (GBIME) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.68 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBBL) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.64 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 87.12 Arba.  The top position in loans and advances is occupied by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.48 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.28 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 1.98 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 62.40 Arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.31 Kharba. 13 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.31 Kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans to support the government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting an application for a loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies, and public transportation by rescheduling their loan payment. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 9.22 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 9.00 Arba and Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB)  with an income of Rs 8.24 Arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 4.87 Arba. 13 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBBL) has the highest comprehensive income of Rs 6.38 Arba.  Nepal  Investment Bank Limited (NIBL) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 5.58 Arba. Nepal Bank Limited  (NBL) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 4.98 Arba.  Major indicators: Rastra Banijaya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 37.27 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 32.54 per share. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 30.65 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 6.47 per share.  The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 19.74. 12 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 296.34 which belongs to Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB). Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) is in the second position with Rs 287.98. Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q4 of FY 2077/78 i.e. Rs 263.19. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 122.34 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 177.12 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the least PE ratio of 15.63 times. It is followed by Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) with a PE ratio of 17.13 times. 16 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 26.97 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for the quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported the lowest NPL of 0.12% in terms of asset quality. EBL is followed by Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) with an NPL of 0.16%.  Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has reported the highest NPL of 3.07%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) seems to have the highest NPL of 2.77%.   In terms of the Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 23.13%. This is followed by Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) with a CAR of 17.97%.  When we look at the indicators of banks, the overall picture doesn't seem so bad after the second wave of the pandemic. Since the central bank applied the expansionary monetary policy to limit the effect of a pandemic on the whole economy, banks had to provide loans at a cheaper rate which could be one of the reasons for lower interest income. However, the banks have disbursed a huge amount of loans, indicating that the investments in the economy are increasing. Since the allocation of provision has also been declining significantly, it might be quite safe to say that the banks have been able to disburse good loans. Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the fourth quarter of FY 2077/78:  Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the low-interest-rate environment and bad loans that might occur, banks have reported improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter. In this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks and do a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. As per the net profit of the fourth quarter of FY 2077/78, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 4.50 Arba. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 4.12 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBBL) has a net profit of Rs 3.80 Arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 56 crores. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 2.34 Arba. All commercial banks except 5 have increased net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last year.   The total net profit for the year is Rs 63.30 Arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 52.77 Arba. The overall industry net profit has increased by 19.66%. Distributable profit: As per the distributable profit of the fourth quarter of 2077/78, Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBBL)   is in the lead with a distributable profit of Rs 4.52 Arba. Similarly,  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 4.14 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has a distributable profit of Rs. 3.49  Arba. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) has reported the lowest distributable profit among all the banks of Rs. 34 crores.  Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 21.63 Arba capital and NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with Rs 16.32 Arba paid-up capital.   * ADBL capital doesn't include 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares. With an industry average of Rs 8.72 Arba, 10 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 8.72 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.35 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 20.61 Arba. Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 20 Arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.47 Arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.51 kharba as a deposit. Only 12 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the fourth quarter of FY 2077/78, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.86 kharba, Global IME Bank (GBIME) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.68 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBBL) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.64 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 87.12 Arba.  The top position in loans and advances is occupied by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.48 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.28 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 1.98 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 62.40 Arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.31 Kharba. 13 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.31 Kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans to support the government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting an application for a loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies, and public transportation by rescheduling their loan payment. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 9.22 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 9.00 Arba and Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB)  with an income of Rs 8.24 Arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 4.87 Arba. 13 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBBL) has the highest comprehensive income of Rs 6.38 Arba.  Nepal  Investment Bank Limited (NIBL) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 5.58 Arba. Nepal Bank Limited  (NBL) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 4.98 Arba.  Major indicators: Rastra Banijaya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 37.27 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 32.54 per share. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 30.65 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 6.47 per share.  The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 19.74. 12 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 296.34 which belongs to Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB). Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) is in the second position with Rs 287.98. Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q4 of FY 2077/78 i.e. Rs 263.19. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 122.34 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 177.12 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the least PE ratio of 15.63 times. It is followed by Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) with a PE ratio of 17.13 times. 16 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 26.97 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for the quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported the lowest NPL of 0.12% in terms of asset quality. EBL is followed by Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) with an NPL of 0.16%.  Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has reported the highest NPL of 3.07%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) seems to have the highest NPL of 2.77%.   In terms of the Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 23.13%. This is followed by Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) with a CAR of 17.97%.  When we look at the indicators of banks, the overall picture doesn't seem so bad after the second wave of the pandemic. Since the central bank applied the expansionary monetary policy to limit the effect of a pandemic on the whole economy, banks had to provide loans at a cheaper rate which could be one of the reasons for lower interest income. However, the banks have disbursed a huge amount of loans, indicating that the investments in the economy are increasing. Since the allocation of provision has also been declining significantly, it might be quite safe to say that the banks have been able to disburse good loans. Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the fourth quarter of FY 2077/78:  Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the low-interest-rate environment and bad loans that might occur, banks have reported improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter. In this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks and do a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. As per the net profit of the fourth quarter of FY 2077/78, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 4.50 Arba. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 4.12 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBBL) has a net profit of Rs 3.80 Arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 56 crores. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 2.34 Arba. All commercial banks except 5 have increased net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last year.   The total net profit for the year is Rs 63.30 Arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 52.77 Arba. The overall industry net profit has increased by 19.66%. Distributable profit: As per the distributable profit of the fourth quarter of 2077/78, Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBBL)   is in the lead with a distributable profit of Rs 4.52 Arba. Similarly,  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 4.14 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has a distributable profit of Rs. 3.49  Arba. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) has reported the lowest distributable profit among all the banks of Rs. 34 crores.  Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 21.63 Arba capital and NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with Rs 16.32 Arba paid-up capital.   * ADBL capital doesn't include 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares. With an industry average of Rs 8.72 Arba, 10 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 8.72 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.35 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 20.61 Arba. Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 20 Arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.47 Arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.51 kharba as a deposit. Only 12 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the fourth quarter of FY 2077/78, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.86 kharba, Global IME Bank (GBIME) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.68 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBBL) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.64 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 87.12 Arba.  The top position in loans and advances is occupied by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.48 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.28 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 1.98 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 62.40 Arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.31 Kharba. 13 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.31 Kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans to support the government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting an application for a loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies, and public transportation by rescheduling their loan payment. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 9.22 Arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 9.00 Arba and Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB)  with an income of Rs 8.24 Arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 4.87 Arba. 13 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Rastriya Banijaya Bank Limited (RBBL) has the highest comprehensive income of Rs 6.38 Arba.  Nepal  Investment Bank Limited (NIBL) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 5.58 Arba. Nepal Bank Limited  (NBL) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 4.98 Arba.  Major indicators: Rastra Banijaya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 37.27 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 32.54 per share. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 30.65 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 6.47 per share.  The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 19.74. 12 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 296.34 which belongs to Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB). Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) is in the second position with Rs 287.98. Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q4 of FY 2077/78 i.e. Rs 263.19. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 122.34 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 177.12 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the least PE ratio of 15.63 times. It is followed by Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) with a PE ratio of 17.13 times. 16 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 26.97 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for the quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported the lowest NPL of 0.12% in terms of asset quality. EBL is followed by Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) with an NPL of 0.16%.  Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has reported the highest NPL of 3.07%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) seems to have the highest NPL of 2.77%.   In terms of the Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 23.13%. This is followed by Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) with a CAR of 17.97%.  When we look at the indicators of banks, the overall picture doesn't seem so bad after the second wave of the pandemic. Since the central bank applied the expansionary monetary policy to limit the effect of a pandemic on the whole economy, banks had to provide loans at a cheaper rate which could be one of the reasons for lower interest income. However, the banks have disbursed a huge amount of loans, indicating that the investments in the economy are increasing. Since the allocation of provision has also been declining significantly, it might be quite safe to say that the banks have been able to disburse good loans. Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the fourth quarter of FY 2077/78:  "
2021-08-19,Nabil Bank launches Cash Machine with Cash Deposit facility; innovative service now available at Pulchowk and Tindhara branches in initial phase,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-cash-machine-with-cash-deposit-facility-innovative-service-now-available-at-pulchowk-and-tindhara-branches-in-initial-phase-2021-08-19,"Nabil Bank has launched the Nabil Cash Machine which is an innovative technology enabling customers to deposit their cash right from their ATM. This is a revolutionary new feature addition that enables customers to make deposits from the designated NCM machines without the need to visit the counter.  In the initial phase, this service shall be made available from Nabil bank’s Teendhara branch and Pulchowk branch. Through this, customers can make deposits of NPR 1000, 500, and 100 up to the limit of NPR 99,900 per transaction to their personal/current account. Furthermore, customers can also make payments of their credit card dues directly using Nabil Cash Machine. With the addition of this new feature, the bank is intended and prepared for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal with a wide network of 135 branches, 183 ATMs, 5 extension counters, and more than 1500+ Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With a banking experience of 37 years, our highly experienced team along with a robust/secured banking system, we have been constantly providing superior service delivery for enhancing the value to our customers. Nabil Bank has launched the Nabil Cash Machine which is an innovative technology enabling customers to deposit their cash right from their ATM. This is a revolutionary new feature addition that enables customers to make deposits from the designated NCM machines without the need to visit the counter.  In the initial phase, this service shall be made available from Nabil bank’s Teendhara branch and Pulchowk branch. Through this, customers can make deposits of NPR 1000, 500, and 100 up to the limit of NPR 99,900 per transaction to their personal/current account. Furthermore, customers can also make payments of their credit card dues directly using Nabil Cash Machine. With the addition of this new feature, the bank is intended and prepared for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal with a wide network of 135 branches, 183 ATMs, 5 extension counters, and more than 1500+ Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With a banking experience of 37 years, our highly experienced team along with a robust/secured banking system, we have been constantly providing superior service delivery for enhancing the value to our customers. Nabil Bank has launched the Nabil Cash Machine which is an innovative technology enabling customers to deposit their cash right from their ATM. This is a revolutionary new feature addition that enables customers to make deposits from the designated NCM machines without the need to visit the counter.  In the initial phase, this service shall be made available from Nabil bank’s Teendhara branch and Pulchowk branch. Through this, customers can make deposits of NPR 1000, 500, and 100 up to the limit of NPR 99,900 per transaction to their personal/current account. Furthermore, customers can also make payments of their credit card dues directly using Nabil Cash Machine. With the addition of this new feature, the bank is intended and prepared for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal with a wide network of 135 branches, 183 ATMs, 5 extension counters, and more than 1500+ Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With a banking experience of 37 years, our highly experienced team along with a robust/secured banking system, we have been constantly providing superior service delivery for enhancing the value to our customers. "
2021-08-16,Banks Update Interest Rates for Bhadra; What Has Changed?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/banks-update-interest-rates-for-bhadra-2021-08-16,"Banks have unveiled their interest rates profile for the month of Bhadra. While some have lowered their interest rates, most have kept it the same. Meanwhile, some banks have raised interest rates, plausibly due to fear of liquidity crunch after the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) scrapped the credit-capital-deposit ratio (CCD ratio) and maintained the loan-to-deposit ratio (CD ratio) in the new monetary policy. Following the NRB's policy of scrapping the CCD and implementing the CD, it has also become difficult for banks to invest. That is why some banks might have strategically raised interest rates right away. Meanwhile, it seems that some are waiting for instructions on how the monetary policy will be implemented. As banks raise interest rates on deposits, the costs increase, and so does the base rate. An increase in the base rate then translates to an increase in the interest rate on loan schemes. Nabil Bank previously gave interest payments in the range of 1.51% to 3.51% on savings. Now, the range has risen to 3.01% - 5.01%. The interest rate on fixed deposit has risen to a higher range of 5.51% - 7.51% for individuals and 6.01% - 8.01% for institutions. Previously, this range was 5.01% - 6.51% for individuals and 4.01% - 6.51% for institutions. Nabil Bank's base rate for the month of Ashar stands at 5.86%. It was 5.71% in the month of Jestha. With this, the interest rates on loan schemes have also gone up, since they are added as premium over the base rate. Nepal Bank Limited has raised its interest payment on deposits. The range is now 3.05% - 4.55%, up from Shrawan's range of 2.5% - 4%. Sanima Bank has also raised its interest rate on savings from 2.35% - 4.35% to 2.77% - 4.77%. Individual fixed depositors previously got interest payments from 7% to 7.5% at Sunrise Bank. Effective from Bhadra 01, depositors will only get in the range of 6.5% to 7%. The base rate has fallen from 6.72% to 6.7%. Citizens Bank has slashed its interest rate range on savings from 3.15% - 5.15% to 3% - 5%. Kumari Bank has also brought its interest rates down. While the previous range was 3.15% - 4%, the bank only provides interest payments in the range of 2.5% to 3.5%. Century Commercial Bank now pays a 2.5% - 4.5% interest rate on savings, compared to its previous range of 3.75% - 5%. Individual fixed depositors will get in the range of 7% - 7.5% while institutional depositors will get 6.55% - 7.5%. Both rates are lower than the profile maintained for Shrawan. Standard Chartered Bank has lowered its interest rate on savings from 2.5% to 2%. Meanwhile, the interest rates on fixed deposits have been retained without any changes. Meanwhile, Laxmi Bank, NMB Bank, Machhapuchhre Bank, NIC Asia, Everest Bank, Prime Commercial Bank, Rastriya Banijya Bank, Nepal Bangladesh Bank, Nepal SBI Bank, Siddhartha Bank, Agriculture Development Bank, and Bank of Kathmandu have not made any changes to their respective interest rates profile. Banks have unveiled their interest rates profile for the month of Bhadra. While some have lowered their interest rates, most have kept it the same. Meanwhile, some banks have raised interest rates, plausibly due to fear of liquidity crunch after the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) scrapped the credit-capital-deposit ratio (CCD ratio) and maintained the loan-to-deposit ratio (CD ratio) in the new monetary policy. Following the NRB's policy of scrapping the CCD and implementing the CD, it has also become difficult for banks to invest. That is why some banks might have strategically raised interest rates right away. Meanwhile, it seems that some are waiting for instructions on how the monetary policy will be implemented. As banks raise interest rates on deposits, the costs increase, and so does the base rate. An increase in the base rate then translates to an increase in the interest rate on loan schemes. Nabil Bank previously gave interest payments in the range of 1.51% to 3.51% on savings. Now, the range has risen to 3.01% - 5.01%. The interest rate on fixed deposit has risen to a higher range of 5.51% - 7.51% for individuals and 6.01% - 8.01% for institutions. Previously, this range was 5.01% - 6.51% for individuals and 4.01% - 6.51% for institutions. Nabil Bank's base rate for the month of Ashar stands at 5.86%. It was 5.71% in the month of Jestha. With this, the interest rates on loan schemes have also gone up, since they are added as premium over the base rate. Nepal Bank Limited has raised its interest payment on deposits. The range is now 3.05% - 4.55%, up from Shrawan's range of 2.5% - 4%. Sanima Bank has also raised its interest rate on savings from 2.35% - 4.35% to 2.77% - 4.77%. Individual fixed depositors previously got interest payments from 7% to 7.5% at Sunrise Bank. Effective from Bhadra 01, depositors will only get in the range of 6.5% to 7%. The base rate has fallen from 6.72% to 6.7%. Citizens Bank has slashed its interest rate range on savings from 3.15% - 5.15% to 3% - 5%. Kumari Bank has also brought its interest rates down. While the previous range was 3.15% - 4%, the bank only provides interest payments in the range of 2.5% to 3.5%. Century Commercial Bank now pays a 2.5% - 4.5% interest rate on savings, compared to its previous range of 3.75% - 5%. Individual fixed depositors will get in the range of 7% - 7.5% while institutional depositors will get 6.55% - 7.5%. Both rates are lower than the profile maintained for Shrawan. Standard Chartered Bank has lowered its interest rate on savings from 2.5% to 2%. Meanwhile, the interest rates on fixed deposits have been retained without any changes. Meanwhile, Laxmi Bank, NMB Bank, Machhapuchhre Bank, NIC Asia, Everest Bank, Prime Commercial Bank, Rastriya Banijya Bank, Nepal Bangladesh Bank, Nepal SBI Bank, Siddhartha Bank, Agriculture Development Bank, and Bank of Kathmandu have not made any changes to their respective interest rates profile. Banks have unveiled their interest rates profile for the month of Bhadra. While some have lowered their interest rates, most have kept it the same. Meanwhile, some banks have raised interest rates, plausibly due to fear of liquidity crunch after the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) scrapped the credit-capital-deposit ratio (CCD ratio) and maintained the loan-to-deposit ratio (CD ratio) in the new monetary policy. Following the NRB's policy of scrapping the CCD and implementing the CD, it has also become difficult for banks to invest. That is why some banks might have strategically raised interest rates right away. Meanwhile, it seems that some are waiting for instructions on how the monetary policy will be implemented. As banks raise interest rates on deposits, the costs increase, and so does the base rate. An increase in the base rate then translates to an increase in the interest rate on loan schemes. Nabil Bank previously gave interest payments in the range of 1.51% to 3.51% on savings. Now, the range has risen to 3.01% - 5.01%. The interest rate on fixed deposit has risen to a higher range of 5.51% - 7.51% for individuals and 6.01% - 8.01% for institutions. Previously, this range was 5.01% - 6.51% for individuals and 4.01% - 6.51% for institutions. Nabil Bank's base rate for the month of Ashar stands at 5.86%. It was 5.71% in the month of Jestha. With this, the interest rates on loan schemes have also gone up, since they are added as premium over the base rate. Nepal Bank Limited has raised its interest payment on deposits. The range is now 3.05% - 4.55%, up from Shrawan's range of 2.5% - 4%. Sanima Bank has also raised its interest rate on savings from 2.35% - 4.35% to 2.77% - 4.77%. Individual fixed depositors previously got interest payments from 7% to 7.5% at Sunrise Bank. Effective from Bhadra 01, depositors will only get in the range of 6.5% to 7%. The base rate has fallen from 6.72% to 6.7%. Citizens Bank has slashed its interest rate range on savings from 3.15% - 5.15% to 3% - 5%. Kumari Bank has also brought its interest rates down. While the previous range was 3.15% - 4%, the bank only provides interest payments in the range of 2.5% to 3.5%. Century Commercial Bank now pays a 2.5% - 4.5% interest rate on savings, compared to its previous range of 3.75% - 5%. Individual fixed depositors will get in the range of 7% - 7.5% while institutional depositors will get 6.55% - 7.5%. Both rates are lower than the profile maintained for Shrawan. Standard Chartered Bank has lowered its interest rate on savings from 2.5% to 2%. Meanwhile, the interest rates on fixed deposits have been retained without any changes. Meanwhile, Laxmi Bank, NMB Bank, Machhapuchhre Bank, NIC Asia, Everest Bank, Prime Commercial Bank, Rastriya Banijya Bank, Nepal Bangladesh Bank, Nepal SBI Bank, Siddhartha Bank, Agriculture Development Bank, and Bank of Kathmandu have not made any changes to their respective interest rates profile. "
2021-08-16,Nabil Bank Limited Reports Impressive Growth In Major Indicators In Q4; Look At The Q4 Highlights,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-reports-impressive-growth-in-major-indicators-in-q4-look-at-the-q4-highlights-2021-08-16,Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its fourth-quarter report for the FY 2077/2078 with an increment in Net Profit by 30.06%. The bank's net profit has increased from Rs. 3.46 Arba in the fourth quarter of FY 2076/2077 to Rs. 4.50 Arba in the fourth quarter of FY 2077/2078. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 17.12% to Rs. 2.23 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 33.81% to Rs. 1.98 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the fourth quarter. The bank's Net Interest Income (core business income) has increased by 10.64% to Rs. 7.72 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 13.84 Arba with Rs. 19.48 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 0.78%. The earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 32.54 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 240.73. The company traded at a P/E multiple of 41.77 times. Click here for the Q4 report Major Highlights:   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its fourth-quarter report for the FY 2077/2078 with an increment in Net Profit by 30.06%. The bank's net profit has increased from Rs. 3.46 Arba in the fourth quarter of FY 2076/2077 to Rs. 4.50 Arba in the fourth quarter of FY 2077/2078. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 17.12% to Rs. 2.23 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 33.81% to Rs. 1.98 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the fourth quarter. The bank's Net Interest Income (core business income) has increased by 10.64% to Rs. 7.72 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 13.84 Arba with Rs. 19.48 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 0.78%. The earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 32.54 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 240.73. The company traded at a P/E multiple of 41.77 times. Click here for the Q4 report Major Highlights:   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its fourth-quarter report for the FY 2077/2078 with an increment in Net Profit by 30.06%. The bank's net profit has increased from Rs. 3.46 Arba in the fourth quarter of FY 2076/2077 to Rs. 4.50 Arba in the fourth quarter of FY 2077/2078. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 17.12% to Rs. 2.23 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 33.81% to Rs. 1.98 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the fourth quarter. The bank's Net Interest Income (core business income) has increased by 10.64% to Rs. 7.72 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 13.84 Arba with Rs. 19.48 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 0.78%. The earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 32.54 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 240.73. The company traded at a P/E multiple of 41.77 times. Click here for the Q4 report Major Highlights:   
2021-08-13,"36,42,921.26 Shares of UFL Listed Under Nabil Bank's Name",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/364292126-shares-of-ufl-listed-under-nabil-banks-name-2021-08-13,"Nabil Bank Limited and United Finance Limited have begun joint operation from 11 July 2021, i.e. 27 Asadh 2078 after a successful acquisition process. The acquisition was made in the share swap ratio of 1: 0.35.  Thus, 36,42,921.26 of the finance company have now been listed under the commercial bank's name. After the acquisition, the bank's paid-up capital and total capital rose to NRs. 13.85 billion and NRs. 32.68 billion respectively. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 135 with 36 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 183. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network, the press release states. Nabil Bank Limited and United Finance Limited have begun joint operation from 11 July 2021, i.e. 27 Asadh 2078 after a successful acquisition process. The acquisition was made in the share swap ratio of 1: 0.35.  Thus, 36,42,921.26 of the finance company have now been listed under the commercial bank's name. After the acquisition, the bank's paid-up capital and total capital rose to NRs. 13.85 billion and NRs. 32.68 billion respectively. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 135 with 36 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 183. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network, the press release states. Nabil Bank Limited and United Finance Limited have begun joint operation from 11 July 2021, i.e. 27 Asadh 2078 after a successful acquisition process. The acquisition was made in the share swap ratio of 1: 0.35.  Thus, 36,42,921.26 of the finance company have now been listed under the commercial bank's name. After the acquisition, the bank's paid-up capital and total capital rose to NRs. 13.85 billion and NRs. 32.68 billion respectively. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 135 with 36 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 183. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network, the press release states. "
2021-08-08,Nabil Bank (NABIL) Urges Shareholders to Collect Unclaimed Dividend of FY 2071/72,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-nabil-urges-shareholders-to-collect-unclaimed-dividend-of-fy-207171-2021-08-08,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has requested investors who haven't claimed their dividend to do so at the earliest notice. Specifically, the bank has urged investors to claim the dividend distributed for the fiscal year 2071/72. The bank had distributed 30% bonus shares and 6.842% cash dividends for the fiscal year. Investors who fail to claim their dividend within 5 years of dividend distribution will have their dividend deposited to the Investors Protection Fund instead. Nabil Invest is the company's share registrar. Investors who haven't claimed this dividend should present their share certificate and proof of identity at the share registrar to claim their dividend. As of writing, the LTP of the company's ordinary shares stands at Rs. 1,499.  Notice Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has requested investors who haven't claimed their dividend to do so at the earliest notice. Specifically, the bank has urged investors to claim the dividend distributed for the fiscal year 2071/72. The bank had distributed 30% bonus shares and 6.842% cash dividends for the fiscal year. Investors who fail to claim their dividend within 5 years of dividend distribution will have their dividend deposited to the Investors Protection Fund instead. Nabil Invest is the company's share registrar. Investors who haven't claimed this dividend should present their share certificate and proof of identity at the share registrar to claim their dividend. As of writing, the LTP of the company's ordinary shares stands at Rs. 1,499.  Notice Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has requested investors who haven't claimed their dividend to do so at the earliest notice. Specifically, the bank has urged investors to claim the dividend distributed for the fiscal year 2071/72. The bank had distributed 30% bonus shares and 6.842% cash dividends for the fiscal year. Investors who fail to claim their dividend within 5 years of dividend distribution will have their dividend deposited to the Investors Protection Fund instead. Nabil Invest is the company's share registrar. Investors who haven't claimed this dividend should present their share certificate and proof of identity at the share registrar to claim their dividend. As of writing, the LTP of the company's ordinary shares stands at Rs. 1,499.  Notice "
2021-08-01,Nabil Bank & DV Excellus collaborate to provide Agriculture Loans to Farmers; to assure farmers with financial and technical support to enhance their agro production,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-dv-excellus-collaborate-to-provide-agriculture-loans-to-farmers-to-assure-farmers-with-financial-and-technical-support-to-enhance-their-agro-production-2021-08-01,"Nabil Bank and DV Excellus Pvt. Ltd. (Kheti App) have entered into an agreement to foster easy access to finance to the registered Farmers in Kheti Farm Platform to purchase agri-inputs, fertilizers, farm machinery, and other requirements for farming in the villages.  Under this strategic partnership, the bank agrees to provide support in providing easy access to finance to the farmers which ensures qualitative seeds & fertilizers. Likewise, farmers can benefit from technical support & assurance of market from DV Excellus. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank, and Mr. Debesh Pradhan, Director of DV Excellus signed the agreement in the presence of Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank, Mr. Niraj Basnet (Danil), Head of SME & MF, Mr. Kiran RS Nair, Chief Operating Officer of DV Excellus & Mr. Subash Bhattarai, Chief Technology Officer of DV Excellus Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah said, “Nabil Bank has always given priority to Sustainable Banking & believes that lending to agriculture sector shall help the sustainable growth of the agri-business which is one of the major contributors of Nepal’s GDP. We are very excited to collaborate with DV Excellus to provide agriculture loans as per the requirements of Registered Farmers thereby enabling them to enhance their production capacity and contribute to the economic development of the country along with contributing to society with organic food for better health & hygiene. With this partnership, Nabil Bank has initiated innovation in traditional financing with a fusion of technical knowledge & business development programs to uplift the farmers with easy availability of qualitative raw materials & easy access to finance. Nabil Bank feels proud to initiate the Agriculture Value Chain Financing by providing suitable banking opportunities to the small farm holders which, we believe to be a major strength on their journey of becoming a successful agro-produce. With this collaboration, Nabil Bank shall provide digital loan solutions through Kheti App. Farmers registered at Kheti App can apply for a loan from Nabil Bank digitally through the App itself. Likewise, the Director of Mr. Debesh Lal Pradhan said “Through this collaboration, DV Excellus is actively working on providing seamless digital loans to the Nepalese farmers through its Kheti Farm application. The ultimate objective of this collaboration is to provide financial assistance to the farmers of Nepal promptly through a seamless digital process, which will encourage the flow of the latest technologies, tools, machinery, techniques, and inputs to the base of the pyramid (BoP) efficiently.” About Nabil Bank Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 135 branches, 183 ATMs, 5 Extension Counter,s and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With a banking experience of 37 years with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank intends to provide superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. About DV Excellus P. Ltd DV Excellus P. Ltd. is an agri-food tech company that is developing and implementing an integrated solution for agri-ecosystem players called “Kheti”. Kheti is a flagship product of DV Excellus. It is an integrated web and mobile-based platform that integrates the entire value chain in food production and consumption, primarily targeting two major customer groups – farmers and consumers. Kheti helps smallholder farmers to be productive and profitable through its farmer-friendly ""Farm Management Tool"" (i.e., maintaining farm data records, customized advisory services, linkage to a wide range of sustainable inputs & services, etc.), and ensuring market access of their produce through specialized B2B linkages, and by building traceable and transparent collaborations between stakeholders. Besides the target customers, the KHETI platform and its services will be used by other agri-stakeholders including agri-experts, agri-cooperatives, products and service suppliers, banks and financial institutions, development agencies, government bodies etc. To date, it has onboarded 10,000+ farmers, 3000+ consumers 100+ restaurants & hotels, and all the major Agri input providers of Nepal. Nabil Bank and DV Excellus Pvt. Ltd. (Kheti App) have entered into an agreement to foster easy access to finance to the registered Farmers in Kheti Farm Platform to purchase agri-inputs, fertilizers, farm machinery, and other requirements for farming in the villages.  Under this strategic partnership, the bank agrees to provide support in providing easy access to finance to the farmers which ensures qualitative seeds & fertilizers. Likewise, farmers can benefit from technical support & assurance of market from DV Excellus. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank, and Mr. Debesh Pradhan, Director of DV Excellus signed the agreement in the presence of Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank, Mr. Niraj Basnet (Danil), Head of SME & MF, Mr. Kiran RS Nair, Chief Operating Officer of DV Excellus & Mr. Subash Bhattarai, Chief Technology Officer of DV Excellus Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah said, “Nabil Bank has always given priority to Sustainable Banking & believes that lending to agriculture sector shall help the sustainable growth of the agri-business which is one of the major contributors of Nepal’s GDP. We are very excited to collaborate with DV Excellus to provide agriculture loans as per the requirements of Registered Farmers thereby enabling them to enhance their production capacity and contribute to the economic development of the country along with contributing to society with organic food for better health & hygiene. With this partnership, Nabil Bank has initiated innovation in traditional financing with a fusion of technical knowledge & business development programs to uplift the farmers with easy availability of qualitative raw materials & easy access to finance. Nabil Bank feels proud to initiate the Agriculture Value Chain Financing by providing suitable banking opportunities to the small farm holders which, we believe to be a major strength on their journey of becoming a successful agro-produce. With this collaboration, Nabil Bank shall provide digital loan solutions through Kheti App. Farmers registered at Kheti App can apply for a loan from Nabil Bank digitally through the App itself. Likewise, the Director of Mr. Debesh Lal Pradhan said “Through this collaboration, DV Excellus is actively working on providing seamless digital loans to the Nepalese farmers through its Kheti Farm application. The ultimate objective of this collaboration is to provide financial assistance to the farmers of Nepal promptly through a seamless digital process, which will encourage the flow of the latest technologies, tools, machinery, techniques, and inputs to the base of the pyramid (BoP) efficiently.” About Nabil Bank Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 135 branches, 183 ATMs, 5 Extension Counter,s and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With a banking experience of 37 years with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank intends to provide superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. About DV Excellus P. Ltd DV Excellus P. Ltd. is an agri-food tech company that is developing and implementing an integrated solution for agri-ecosystem players called “Kheti”. Kheti is a flagship product of DV Excellus. It is an integrated web and mobile-based platform that integrates the entire value chain in food production and consumption, primarily targeting two major customer groups – farmers and consumers. Kheti helps smallholder farmers to be productive and profitable through its farmer-friendly ""Farm Management Tool"" (i.e., maintaining farm data records, customized advisory services, linkage to a wide range of sustainable inputs & services, etc.), and ensuring market access of their produce through specialized B2B linkages, and by building traceable and transparent collaborations between stakeholders. Besides the target customers, the KHETI platform and its services will be used by other agri-stakeholders including agri-experts, agri-cooperatives, products and service suppliers, banks and financial institutions, development agencies, government bodies etc. To date, it has onboarded 10,000+ farmers, 3000+ consumers 100+ restaurants & hotels, and all the major Agri input providers of Nepal. Nabil Bank and DV Excellus Pvt. Ltd. (Kheti App) have entered into an agreement to foster easy access to finance to the registered Farmers in Kheti Farm Platform to purchase agri-inputs, fertilizers, farm machinery, and other requirements for farming in the villages.  Under this strategic partnership, the bank agrees to provide support in providing easy access to finance to the farmers which ensures qualitative seeds & fertilizers. Likewise, farmers can benefit from technical support & assurance of market from DV Excellus. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank, and Mr. Debesh Pradhan, Director of DV Excellus signed the agreement in the presence of Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank, Mr. Niraj Basnet (Danil), Head of SME & MF, Mr. Kiran RS Nair, Chief Operating Officer of DV Excellus & Mr. Subash Bhattarai, Chief Technology Officer of DV Excellus Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah said, “Nabil Bank has always given priority to Sustainable Banking & believes that lending to agriculture sector shall help the sustainable growth of the agri-business which is one of the major contributors of Nepal’s GDP. We are very excited to collaborate with DV Excellus to provide agriculture loans as per the requirements of Registered Farmers thereby enabling them to enhance their production capacity and contribute to the economic development of the country along with contributing to society with organic food for better health & hygiene. With this partnership, Nabil Bank has initiated innovation in traditional financing with a fusion of technical knowledge & business development programs to uplift the farmers with easy availability of qualitative raw materials & easy access to finance. Nabil Bank feels proud to initiate the Agriculture Value Chain Financing by providing suitable banking opportunities to the small farm holders which, we believe to be a major strength on their journey of becoming a successful agro-produce. With this collaboration, Nabil Bank shall provide digital loan solutions through Kheti App. Farmers registered at Kheti App can apply for a loan from Nabil Bank digitally through the App itself. Likewise, the Director of Mr. Debesh Lal Pradhan said “Through this collaboration, DV Excellus is actively working on providing seamless digital loans to the Nepalese farmers through its Kheti Farm application. The ultimate objective of this collaboration is to provide financial assistance to the farmers of Nepal promptly through a seamless digital process, which will encourage the flow of the latest technologies, tools, machinery, techniques, and inputs to the base of the pyramid (BoP) efficiently.” About Nabil Bank Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 135 branches, 183 ATMs, 5 Extension Counter,s and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With a banking experience of 37 years with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank intends to provide superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. About DV Excellus P. Ltd DV Excellus P. Ltd. is an agri-food tech company that is developing and implementing an integrated solution for agri-ecosystem players called “Kheti”. Kheti is a flagship product of DV Excellus. It is an integrated web and mobile-based platform that integrates the entire value chain in food production and consumption, primarily targeting two major customer groups – farmers and consumers. Kheti helps smallholder farmers to be productive and profitable through its farmer-friendly ""Farm Management Tool"" (i.e., maintaining farm data records, customized advisory services, linkage to a wide range of sustainable inputs & services, etc.), and ensuring market access of their produce through specialized B2B linkages, and by building traceable and transparent collaborations between stakeholders. Besides the target customers, the KHETI platform and its services will be used by other agri-stakeholders including agri-experts, agri-cooperatives, products and service suppliers, banks and financial institutions, development agencies, government bodies etc. To date, it has onboarded 10,000+ farmers, 3000+ consumers 100+ restaurants & hotels, and all the major Agri input providers of Nepal. "
2021-07-28,"Public Issue of ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085"" Extended Till Shrawan 24",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/public-issue-of-8-nabil-bank-debenture-2085-extended-till-shrawan-24-2021-07-28,"Nabil Bank Limited has extended the deadline for the public issue of the ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085."" The issue opened on 10th Shrawan and was supposed to conclude on 13th Shrawan, 2078. Since the issue is not subscribed by the early closing date, the deadline has been extended till Shrawan 24. 30,00,000 units are issued at a par value of Rs.1000 per unit. Of the total issue, 18 lakh units will be subscribed via private placement and 12 lakh units have been issued to the general public, including a 5% quota for mutual funds. Investors can apply for a minimum of 25 units to a maximum of the entire issue size. As the name suggests, ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085"" has a maturity period of 7 years and will yield 8% annual returns to unitholders. Offer Letter  Nabil Bank Limited has extended the deadline for the public issue of the ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085."" The issue opened on 10th Shrawan and was supposed to conclude on 13th Shrawan, 2078. Since the issue is not subscribed by the early closing date, the deadline has been extended till Shrawan 24. 30,00,000 units are issued at a par value of Rs.1000 per unit. Of the total issue, 18 lakh units will be subscribed via private placement and 12 lakh units have been issued to the general public, including a 5% quota for mutual funds. Investors can apply for a minimum of 25 units to a maximum of the entire issue size. As the name suggests, ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085"" has a maturity period of 7 years and will yield 8% annual returns to unitholders. Offer Letter  Nabil Bank Limited has extended the deadline for the public issue of the ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085."" The issue opened on 10th Shrawan and was supposed to conclude on 13th Shrawan, 2078. Since the issue is not subscribed by the early closing date, the deadline has been extended till Shrawan 24. 30,00,000 units are issued at a par value of Rs.1000 per unit. Of the total issue, 18 lakh units will be subscribed via private placement and 12 lakh units have been issued to the general public, including a 5% quota for mutual funds. Investors can apply for a minimum of 25 units to a maximum of the entire issue size. As the name suggests, ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085"" has a maturity period of 7 years and will yield 8% annual returns to unitholders. Offer Letter  "
2021-07-27,Nabil Bank to offer discount on Loan Processing Fee while applying online for SME Loan; offer valid only for limited time,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-offer-discount-on-loan-processing-fee-while-applying-online-for-sme-loan-offer-valid-only-for-limited-time-2021-07-27,"Nabil Bank has launched an Online Application for SME Loans. Now customers willing to apply for a Nabil SME loan can simply visit the bank’s website (https://www.nabilbank.com/individual/sme-loan-application/business-information-details) & apply for the loan digitally. This initiative is in line with the bank’s aim to transform into a fully digital Bank. Nabil Bank intends to meet the customers’ current needs and expectations of enjoying banking services at all times through any preferred electronic device.  Moreover, the Bank is offering discounts on service charges to limited customers who apply for SME loans through Bank’s official website. The offer is a part of the “Nabil Bank – Go Digital Program, Digital Karobar Aajako Aawasyakta” campaign. Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal with a wide network of 135 branches, 183 ATMs, 5 extension counters, and more than 1500+ Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With a banking experience of 37 years, our highly experienced team along with robust/secured banking system, we have been constantly providing superior service delivery for enhancing the value to our customers. Nabil Bank has launched an Online Application for SME Loans. Now customers willing to apply for a Nabil SME loan can simply visit the bank’s website (https://www.nabilbank.com/individual/sme-loan-application/business-information-details) & apply for the loan digitally. This initiative is in line with the bank’s aim to transform into a fully digital Bank. Nabil Bank intends to meet the customers’ current needs and expectations of enjoying banking services at all times through any preferred electronic device.  Moreover, the Bank is offering discounts on service charges to limited customers who apply for SME loans through Bank’s official website. The offer is a part of the “Nabil Bank – Go Digital Program, Digital Karobar Aajako Aawasyakta” campaign. Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal with a wide network of 135 branches, 183 ATMs, 5 extension counters, and more than 1500+ Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With a banking experience of 37 years, our highly experienced team along with robust/secured banking system, we have been constantly providing superior service delivery for enhancing the value to our customers. Nabil Bank has launched an Online Application for SME Loans. Now customers willing to apply for a Nabil SME loan can simply visit the bank’s website (https://www.nabilbank.com/individual/sme-loan-application/business-information-details) & apply for the loan digitally. This initiative is in line with the bank’s aim to transform into a fully digital Bank. Nabil Bank intends to meet the customers’ current needs and expectations of enjoying banking services at all times through any preferred electronic device.  Moreover, the Bank is offering discounts on service charges to limited customers who apply for SME loans through Bank’s official website. The offer is a part of the “Nabil Bank – Go Digital Program, Digital Karobar Aajako Aawasyakta” campaign. Nabil Bank is one of the leading commercial banks of Nepal with a wide network of 135 branches, 183 ATMs, 5 extension counters, and more than 1500+ Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With a banking experience of 37 years, our highly experienced team along with robust/secured banking system, we have been constantly providing superior service delivery for enhancing the value to our customers. "
2021-07-25,"Public Issue of ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085"" Open From Today",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/public-issue-of-8-nabil-bank-debenture-2085-open-from-today-2021-07-25,"Nabil Bank Limited has opened the public issue of the ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085"" today, i.e. 10th Shrawan. The issue will conclude on 13th Shrawan, 2078. If not subscribed by the early closing date, the deadline can be extended till Shrawan 24. 30,00,000 units will be issued at a par value of Rs.1000 per unit. Of the total issue, 18 lakh units will be subscribed via private placement and 12 lakh units will be issued to the general public, including a 5% quota for mutual funds. Investors can apply for a minimum of 25 units to a maximum of the entire issue size. As the name suggests, ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085"" has a maturity period of 7 years and will yield 8% annual returns to unitholders. Offer Letter  Nabil Bank Limited has opened the public issue of the ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085"" today, i.e. 10th Shrawan. The issue will conclude on 13th Shrawan, 2078. If not subscribed by the early closing date, the deadline can be extended till Shrawan 24. 30,00,000 units will be issued at a par value of Rs.1000 per unit. Of the total issue, 18 lakh units will be subscribed via private placement and 12 lakh units will be issued to the general public, including a 5% quota for mutual funds. Investors can apply for a minimum of 25 units to a maximum of the entire issue size. As the name suggests, ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085"" has a maturity period of 7 years and will yield 8% annual returns to unitholders. Offer Letter  Nabil Bank Limited has opened the public issue of the ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085"" today, i.e. 10th Shrawan. The issue will conclude on 13th Shrawan, 2078. If not subscribed by the early closing date, the deadline can be extended till Shrawan 24. 30,00,000 units will be issued at a par value of Rs.1000 per unit. Of the total issue, 18 lakh units will be subscribed via private placement and 12 lakh units will be issued to the general public, including a 5% quota for mutual funds. Investors can apply for a minimum of 25 units to a maximum of the entire issue size. As the name suggests, ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085"" has a maturity period of 7 years and will yield 8% annual returns to unitholders. Offer Letter  "
2021-07-21,"""Sustainable Banking Is Not Just Another Banking Scheme, It Is a New Banking Culture"": Interview with Nabil Bank Chairman Upendra Poudyal",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/sustainable-banking-is-not-just-another-banking-scheme-it-is-a-new-banking-culture-interview-with-nabil-bank-chairman-upendra-poudyal-2021-07-21,"Of all the memorable incidents he has lived through in his illustrious banking career, Upendra Prasad Poudyal narrates a particularly empowering story that strums through the listener's emotional heartstrings. He recalls his visit to Nepal's rural east a significant number of years ago when he saw confident women giving elegant speeches. These women took great pride in being able to sign a document instead of taking help from a bank subordinate for a thumbprint. This was when Poudyal saw first-hand the magic that banking brought in these rural areas, how it financed their micro-businesses, and how it let their kids attend school. Poudyal currently serves as the Chairman of Nabil Bank, Nepal's banking industry leader. With 14 years of working experience in Standard Chartered Bank Nepal and 17 years in NMB Bank, there was only one thing that could bring Poudyal back from retirement: the desire to contribute and give back to the nation.  ""The success of a financial institution should be assessed by the positive impact it creates on the lives of people,"" Poudyal states. ""After all, Banking is about people, the planet, and prosperity."" This will to do responsible banking is what led Poudyal and his team to an entirely new discipline: Sustainable Banking. Poudyal likes to view Sustainable Banking not just as another product in the banking industry's arsenal but as an approach to a new banking culture altogether. Sustainable finance refers to the process of taking environmental, social, and governance (ESG) considerations into account when making investment decisions in the financial sector, leading to more long-term investments in sustainable economic activities and projects. Environmental considerations might include climate change mitigation and adaptation, as well as the environment more broadly, for instance, the preservation of biodiversity, pollution prevention, and the circular economy. Social considerations could refer to issues of inequality, inclusiveness, labor relations, investment in human capital and communities, as well as human rights issues. The governance of public and private institutions – including management structures, employee relations Sustainable Banking is a business model integrated with the people and the environment. It is a value-based approach that takes responsibility for the wellbeing of the people, community, and the planet. Sustainable Banking stems from the realization that the prosperity of the banking industry is closely intertwined with the prosperity of the customers it serves and the longevity of the resources it exploits. ""The way our country does banking is not error-proof,"" Poudyal states. ""The system we follow has been proved to be flawed by the multiple economic crises in the international economic stage, most notable being the 2008 financial crisis. Banking should be transparent. It should contribute to the real economy. Profit-driven compromises hamper the resiliency of a financial institution. If the banking industry does not adapt and reshift its focus on the people, the industry as a whole may face the threat of substitution, if not extinction."" Poudyal opines that the mission of the banking industry is not only to collect deposits, forward loans, and expand branches, only to repeat the same performance loop. A financial institution should illuminate the lives of the people it touches, and positively impact the economy of the region where it operates. Sustainable Banking takes its foundation from this very idea, that the banking industry should also take responsibility in empowering the people, teaching them entrepreneurship, which the people of rural areas lack, and training them to be responsible citizens, sensible community members, and a significant spoke of the greater economic wheel. And it does seem like the Chairman lives by his words. In Sharesansar's two-hour meeting with Poudyal, he manages to narrate stories after stories about how hydropower projects in Nepal should consider the impact of stream alteration on the habitat of aquatic species, how the banking industry should properly study the impact created not only by its investment but also the impacts created by the investment of the businesses and sectors that it funds. For someone who takes a quick, shallow look around things, the concept of sustainability feels the least likely to take root from the banking industry, an industry that appears to be the epitome of capitalism. However, the zeal with which the Chairman pitches the idea is persuasive enough to make one believe that the concept is really here to revolutionize the banking culture and that it is only a handful number of determined steps away. Mr. Poudyal is inspired by the Values-Based Banking Movement globally as taken forward by Global Alliance for Banking on Values (GABV) wherein he represents the Asia Pacific Region. GABV, headquartered in Amsterdam, Netherlands, is a network of banking leaders from around the world committed to advancing positive change in the banking sector. The collective goal of the Alliance is to promote a banking system that is more transparent, supports economic, social, and environmental sustainability, and is composed of a diverse range of banking institutions serving the real economy. 1) Integration of environmental and social considerations into the decision-making process relating to business activities to avoid, minimize, or offset negative impacts. 2) Avoid, minimize, or offset the negative impacts of business operations of the Bank as well as its clients on the environment and local communities. 3) Serving the Real Economy that supports the generation of goods and services. 4) Respect human rights in business operations and business activities. 5) Promote women's economic empowerment through capacity-building initiatives, promoting entrepreneurship and positive workplace culture. 6) Promote financial inclusion chiefly from the branches in rural Nepal, seeking to provide financial services to individuals and communities that traditionally have had limited or no access to the formal financial sector. 7) Implement robust and transparent Environmental, Social, and & Governance (ESG) practices and assess the ESG  practices of clients. 8) Develop individual, institutional, and sector capacity necessary to identify, assess, and manage the environmental and social risks and opportunities associated with business operations. Align the Bank with the regulations and guidelines issued by the NRB and other regulatory authorities. 9) Seek Collaboration across sectors and leverage international partnerships including Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) to accelerate collective progress and move the sector as one. 10) Developing a Values-Based Banking culture in the Bank. 11) Regularly review and report on the Bank’s progress in meeting these principles at the individual and sector levels and also attempt to relate it against the UN Sustainable Development Goals or any other sustainability benchmarks that may be specified by the country. Through Nabil Sustainable Banking (NSB), the bank aims at extending financial access to the unbanked while promoting entrepreneurship in the most remote corners of the country. Aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Nabil Sustainable Banking seeks to intervene across geographic, demographic, and economic strata to facilitate the creation of sustainable micro-enterprises for a better Nepal. This is a focused banking approach to support the real economy at the grassroots level. With the time-tested experience of the bank's Chairman, Mr. Poudyal, and the execution of the company CEO Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Nabil Bank has brought the concept of sustainability into its strategic direction. The Bank has already been working toward Green Banking, Carbon Accounting in its lending portfolios, and lending to create a sustainable impact on rural and backward people. Nabil Bank has launched two products: Nabil Kisan Karza and Nabil Udhyamsil Karza targeting entrepreneurship development and commercialization of agriculture for the people of rural areas among people having low access to finance. Though these products have been rolled out through all the branches across the nation, the bank will initially focus on 17 selected rural branches to concentrate its sustainable activities for creating a sustainable impact on the backward population. For Nabil Bank to incorporate sustainable banking into its banking culture, the idea should be institutionalized. When a Nabil Bank employee walks into the office in the morning and clocks in, he/she should believe in the core idea that she is responsible to bring sustainable banking into play for the very day. When asked how Nabil Bank as an institution can personify this buzzing idea, Chairman Poudyal explained how the bank has established a dedicated Sustainable Banking Department. With the realization that this goal can't be attained only with business-centric strategies and productivity-driven personnel, the bank is also looking around to work with people who understand what sustainability means and how it can be attained. Working toward its sustainable priorities, the bank has also signed an MOU with the Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training (CTEVT) for bridging the gap of access to finance to the trained graduate of CTEVT. Through this MOU, the bank will provide its sustainable and other microfinance/ deprived sector products to students/ graduates of CTEVT and its affiliates across the nation. The bank believes this will help promote entrepreneurship development in these trained resources. The MOU was signed by the CEO of the Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, and Member Secretary of CTEVT, Mr. Jeeb Narayan Kafle. ""The MOU between CTEVT and Nabil is a milestone way forward to the entrepreneur development and sustainable development goals of the nation,"" Kafle stated. The Bank seeks to establish a social entrepreneurship school along the journey to take the initiation to a grander level. The Bank has also taken initiatives in developing collaborations with various institutions for capacity building for entrepreneurship development of the people as well as training its own employee in the area.   The Bank also aims to focus its CSR activities on developing entrepreneurship amongst the people in the country as it believes in equipping people in providing skills for income-generating activities and providing needed financing support to make it happen. Furthermore, Nabil Bank Chairman Poudyal recently echoed with the Central Bank authorities on the need for developing a Sustainable Banking Roadmap for the country. Poudyal believes his vision, and the vision of bankers like him will be materialized faster if reinforced by the regulatory authorities. He echoed that sooner or later, we need to “Change Finance to Finance Change’. Sustainable Banking is not a deviation from core banking, Poudyal believes; as a matter of fact, it is its future. Chairman's Concluding Message to the Reader: Interview led by Rachit Agrawal, Executive Chairman, Sharesansar. Article crafted and compiled by Samin Gurung, Media Officer, Sharesansar. Technical support from Samyak Shakya. Of all the memorable incidents he has lived through in his illustrious banking career, Upendra Prasad Poudyal narrates a particularly empowering story that strums through the listener's emotional heartstrings. He recalls his visit to Nepal's rural east a significant number of years ago when he saw confident women giving elegant speeches. These women took great pride in being able to sign a document instead of taking help from a bank subordinate for a thumbprint. This was when Poudyal saw first-hand the magic that banking brought in these rural areas, how it financed their micro-businesses, and how it let their kids attend school. Poudyal currently serves as the Chairman of Nabil Bank, Nepal's banking industry leader. With 14 years of working experience in Standard Chartered Bank Nepal and 17 years in NMB Bank, there was only one thing that could bring Poudyal back from retirement: the desire to contribute and give back to the nation.  ""The success of a financial institution should be assessed by the positive impact it creates on the lives of people,"" Poudyal states. ""After all, Banking is about people, the planet, and prosperity."" This will to do responsible banking is what led Poudyal and his team to an entirely new discipline: Sustainable Banking. Poudyal likes to view Sustainable Banking not just as another product in the banking industry's arsenal but as an approach to a new banking culture altogether. Sustainable finance refers to the process of taking environmental, social, and governance (ESG) considerations into account when making investment decisions in the financial sector, leading to more long-term investments in sustainable economic activities and projects. Environmental considerations might include climate change mitigation and adaptation, as well as the environment more broadly, for instance, the preservation of biodiversity, pollution prevention, and the circular economy. Social considerations could refer to issues of inequality, inclusiveness, labor relations, investment in human capital and communities, as well as human rights issues. The governance of public and private institutions – including management structures, employee relations Sustainable Banking is a business model integrated with the people and the environment. It is a value-based approach that takes responsibility for the wellbeing of the people, community, and the planet. Sustainable Banking stems from the realization that the prosperity of the banking industry is closely intertwined with the prosperity of the customers it serves and the longevity of the resources it exploits. ""The way our country does banking is not error-proof,"" Poudyal states. ""The system we follow has been proved to be flawed by the multiple economic crises in the international economic stage, most notable being the 2008 financial crisis. Banking should be transparent. It should contribute to the real economy. Profit-driven compromises hamper the resiliency of a financial institution. If the banking industry does not adapt and reshift its focus on the people, the industry as a whole may face the threat of substitution, if not extinction."" Poudyal opines that the mission of the banking industry is not only to collect deposits, forward loans, and expand branches, only to repeat the same performance loop. A financial institution should illuminate the lives of the people it touches, and positively impact the economy of the region where it operates. Sustainable Banking takes its foundation from this very idea, that the banking industry should also take responsibility in empowering the people, teaching them entrepreneurship, which the people of rural areas lack, and training them to be responsible citizens, sensible community members, and a significant spoke of the greater economic wheel. And it does seem like the Chairman lives by his words. In Sharesansar's two-hour meeting with Poudyal, he manages to narrate stories after stories about how hydropower projects in Nepal should consider the impact of stream alteration on the habitat of aquatic species, how the banking industry should properly study the impact created not only by its investment but also the impacts created by the investment of the businesses and sectors that it funds. For someone who takes a quick, shallow look around things, the concept of sustainability feels the least likely to take root from the banking industry, an industry that appears to be the epitome of capitalism. However, the zeal with which the Chairman pitches the idea is persuasive enough to make one believe that the concept is really here to revolutionize the banking culture and that it is only a handful number of determined steps away. Mr. Poudyal is inspired by the Values-Based Banking Movement globally as taken forward by Global Alliance for Banking on Values (GABV) wherein he represents the Asia Pacific Region. GABV, headquartered in Amsterdam, Netherlands, is a network of banking leaders from around the world committed to advancing positive change in the banking sector. The collective goal of the Alliance is to promote a banking system that is more transparent, supports economic, social, and environmental sustainability, and is composed of a diverse range of banking institutions serving the real economy. 1) Integration of environmental and social considerations into the decision-making process relating to business activities to avoid, minimize, or offset negative impacts. 2) Avoid, minimize, or offset the negative impacts of business operations of the Bank as well as its clients on the environment and local communities. 3) Serving the Real Economy that supports the generation of goods and services. 4) Respect human rights in business operations and business activities. 5) Promote women's economic empowerment through capacity-building initiatives, promoting entrepreneurship and positive workplace culture. 6) Promote financial inclusion chiefly from the branches in rural Nepal, seeking to provide financial services to individuals and communities that traditionally have had limited or no access to the formal financial sector. 7) Implement robust and transparent Environmental, Social, and & Governance (ESG) practices and assess the ESG  practices of clients. 8) Develop individual, institutional, and sector capacity necessary to identify, assess, and manage the environmental and social risks and opportunities associated with business operations. Align the Bank with the regulations and guidelines issued by the NRB and other regulatory authorities. 9) Seek Collaboration across sectors and leverage international partnerships including Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) to accelerate collective progress and move the sector as one. 10) Developing a Values-Based Banking culture in the Bank. 11) Regularly review and report on the Bank’s progress in meeting these principles at the individual and sector levels and also attempt to relate it against the UN Sustainable Development Goals or any other sustainability benchmarks that may be specified by the country. Through Nabil Sustainable Banking (NSB), the bank aims at extending financial access to the unbanked while promoting entrepreneurship in the most remote corners of the country. Aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Nabil Sustainable Banking seeks to intervene across geographic, demographic, and economic strata to facilitate the creation of sustainable micro-enterprises for a better Nepal. This is a focused banking approach to support the real economy at the grassroots level. With the time-tested experience of the bank's Chairman, Mr. Poudyal, and the execution of the company CEO Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Nabil Bank has brought the concept of sustainability into its strategic direction. The Bank has already been working toward Green Banking, Carbon Accounting in its lending portfolios, and lending to create a sustainable impact on rural and backward people. Nabil Bank has launched two products: Nabil Kisan Karza and Nabil Udhyamsil Karza targeting entrepreneurship development and commercialization of agriculture for the people of rural areas among people having low access to finance. Though these products have been rolled out through all the branches across the nation, the bank will initially focus on 17 selected rural branches to concentrate its sustainable activities for creating a sustainable impact on the backward population. For Nabil Bank to incorporate sustainable banking into its banking culture, the idea should be institutionalized. When a Nabil Bank employee walks into the office in the morning and clocks in, he/she should believe in the core idea that she is responsible to bring sustainable banking into play for the very day. When asked how Nabil Bank as an institution can personify this buzzing idea, Chairman Poudyal explained how the bank has established a dedicated Sustainable Banking Department. With the realization that this goal can't be attained only with business-centric strategies and productivity-driven personnel, the bank is also looking around to work with people who understand what sustainability means and how it can be attained. Working toward its sustainable priorities, the bank has also signed an MOU with the Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training (CTEVT) for bridging the gap of access to finance to the trained graduate of CTEVT. Through this MOU, the bank will provide its sustainable and other microfinance/ deprived sector products to students/ graduates of CTEVT and its affiliates across the nation. The bank believes this will help promote entrepreneurship development in these trained resources. The MOU was signed by the CEO of the Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, and Member Secretary of CTEVT, Mr. Jeeb Narayan Kafle. ""The MOU between CTEVT and Nabil is a milestone way forward to the entrepreneur development and sustainable development goals of the nation,"" Kafle stated. The Bank seeks to establish a social entrepreneurship school along the journey to take the initiation to a grander level. The Bank has also taken initiatives in developing collaborations with various institutions for capacity building for entrepreneurship development of the people as well as training its own employee in the area.   The Bank also aims to focus its CSR activities on developing entrepreneurship amongst the people in the country as it believes in equipping people in providing skills for income-generating activities and providing needed financing support to make it happen. Furthermore, Nabil Bank Chairman Poudyal recently echoed with the Central Bank authorities on the need for developing a Sustainable Banking Roadmap for the country. Poudyal believes his vision, and the vision of bankers like him will be materialized faster if reinforced by the regulatory authorities. He echoed that sooner or later, we need to “Change Finance to Finance Change’. Sustainable Banking is not a deviation from core banking, Poudyal believes; as a matter of fact, it is its future. Chairman's Concluding Message to the Reader: Interview led by Rachit Agrawal, Executive Chairman, Sharesansar. Article crafted and compiled by Samin Gurung, Media Officer, Sharesansar. Technical support from Samyak Shakya. Of all the memorable incidents he has lived through in his illustrious banking career, Upendra Prasad Poudyal narrates a particularly empowering story that strums through the listener's emotional heartstrings. He recalls his visit to Nepal's rural east a significant number of years ago when he saw confident women giving elegant speeches. These women took great pride in being able to sign a document instead of taking help from a bank subordinate for a thumbprint. This was when Poudyal saw first-hand the magic that banking brought in these rural areas, how it financed their micro-businesses, and how it let their kids attend school. Poudyal currently serves as the Chairman of Nabil Bank, Nepal's banking industry leader. With 14 years of working experience in Standard Chartered Bank Nepal and 17 years in NMB Bank, there was only one thing that could bring Poudyal back from retirement: the desire to contribute and give back to the nation.  ""The success of a financial institution should be assessed by the positive impact it creates on the lives of people,"" Poudyal states. ""After all, Banking is about people, the planet, and prosperity."" This will to do responsible banking is what led Poudyal and his team to an entirely new discipline: Sustainable Banking. Poudyal likes to view Sustainable Banking not just as another product in the banking industry's arsenal but as an approach to a new banking culture altogether. Sustainable finance refers to the process of taking environmental, social, and governance (ESG) considerations into account when making investment decisions in the financial sector, leading to more long-term investments in sustainable economic activities and projects. Environmental considerations might include climate change mitigation and adaptation, as well as the environment more broadly, for instance, the preservation of biodiversity, pollution prevention, and the circular economy. Social considerations could refer to issues of inequality, inclusiveness, labor relations, investment in human capital and communities, as well as human rights issues. The governance of public and private institutions – including management structures, employee relations Sustainable Banking is a business model integrated with the people and the environment. It is a value-based approach that takes responsibility for the wellbeing of the people, community, and the planet. Sustainable Banking stems from the realization that the prosperity of the banking industry is closely intertwined with the prosperity of the customers it serves and the longevity of the resources it exploits. ""The way our country does banking is not error-proof,"" Poudyal states. ""The system we follow has been proved to be flawed by the multiple economic crises in the international economic stage, most notable being the 2008 financial crisis. Banking should be transparent. It should contribute to the real economy. Profit-driven compromises hamper the resiliency of a financial institution. If the banking industry does not adapt and reshift its focus on the people, the industry as a whole may face the threat of substitution, if not extinction."" Poudyal opines that the mission of the banking industry is not only to collect deposits, forward loans, and expand branches, only to repeat the same performance loop. A financial institution should illuminate the lives of the people it touches, and positively impact the economy of the region where it operates. Sustainable Banking takes its foundation from this very idea, that the banking industry should also take responsibility in empowering the people, teaching them entrepreneurship, which the people of rural areas lack, and training them to be responsible citizens, sensible community members, and a significant spoke of the greater economic wheel. And it does seem like the Chairman lives by his words. In Sharesansar's two-hour meeting with Poudyal, he manages to narrate stories after stories about how hydropower projects in Nepal should consider the impact of stream alteration on the habitat of aquatic species, how the banking industry should properly study the impact created not only by its investment but also the impacts created by the investment of the businesses and sectors that it funds. For someone who takes a quick, shallow look around things, the concept of sustainability feels the least likely to take root from the banking industry, an industry that appears to be the epitome of capitalism. However, the zeal with which the Chairman pitches the idea is persuasive enough to make one believe that the concept is really here to revolutionize the banking culture and that it is only a handful number of determined steps away. Mr. Poudyal is inspired by the Values-Based Banking Movement globally as taken forward by Global Alliance for Banking on Values (GABV) wherein he represents the Asia Pacific Region. GABV, headquartered in Amsterdam, Netherlands, is a network of banking leaders from around the world committed to advancing positive change in the banking sector. The collective goal of the Alliance is to promote a banking system that is more transparent, supports economic, social, and environmental sustainability, and is composed of a diverse range of banking institutions serving the real economy. 1) Integration of environmental and social considerations into the decision-making process relating to business activities to avoid, minimize, or offset negative impacts. 2) Avoid, minimize, or offset the negative impacts of business operations of the Bank as well as its clients on the environment and local communities. 3) Serving the Real Economy that supports the generation of goods and services. 4) Respect human rights in business operations and business activities. 5) Promote women's economic empowerment through capacity-building initiatives, promoting entrepreneurship and positive workplace culture. 6) Promote financial inclusion chiefly from the branches in rural Nepal, seeking to provide financial services to individuals and communities that traditionally have had limited or no access to the formal financial sector. 7) Implement robust and transparent Environmental, Social, and & Governance (ESG) practices and assess the ESG  practices of clients. 8) Develop individual, institutional, and sector capacity necessary to identify, assess, and manage the environmental and social risks and opportunities associated with business operations. Align the Bank with the regulations and guidelines issued by the NRB and other regulatory authorities. 9) Seek Collaboration across sectors and leverage international partnerships including Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) to accelerate collective progress and move the sector as one. 10) Developing a Values-Based Banking culture in the Bank. 11) Regularly review and report on the Bank’s progress in meeting these principles at the individual and sector levels and also attempt to relate it against the UN Sustainable Development Goals or any other sustainability benchmarks that may be specified by the country. Through Nabil Sustainable Banking (NSB), the bank aims at extending financial access to the unbanked while promoting entrepreneurship in the most remote corners of the country. Aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Nabil Sustainable Banking seeks to intervene across geographic, demographic, and economic strata to facilitate the creation of sustainable micro-enterprises for a better Nepal. This is a focused banking approach to support the real economy at the grassroots level. With the time-tested experience of the bank's Chairman, Mr. Poudyal, and the execution of the company CEO Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Nabil Bank has brought the concept of sustainability into its strategic direction. The Bank has already been working toward Green Banking, Carbon Accounting in its lending portfolios, and lending to create a sustainable impact on rural and backward people. Nabil Bank has launched two products: Nabil Kisan Karza and Nabil Udhyamsil Karza targeting entrepreneurship development and commercialization of agriculture for the people of rural areas among people having low access to finance. Though these products have been rolled out through all the branches across the nation, the bank will initially focus on 17 selected rural branches to concentrate its sustainable activities for creating a sustainable impact on the backward population. For Nabil Bank to incorporate sustainable banking into its banking culture, the idea should be institutionalized. When a Nabil Bank employee walks into the office in the morning and clocks in, he/she should believe in the core idea that she is responsible to bring sustainable banking into play for the very day. When asked how Nabil Bank as an institution can personify this buzzing idea, Chairman Poudyal explained how the bank has established a dedicated Sustainable Banking Department. With the realization that this goal can't be attained only with business-centric strategies and productivity-driven personnel, the bank is also looking around to work with people who understand what sustainability means and how it can be attained. Working toward its sustainable priorities, the bank has also signed an MOU with the Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training (CTEVT) for bridging the gap of access to finance to the trained graduate of CTEVT. Through this MOU, the bank will provide its sustainable and other microfinance/ deprived sector products to students/ graduates of CTEVT and its affiliates across the nation. The bank believes this will help promote entrepreneurship development in these trained resources. The MOU was signed by the CEO of the Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, and Member Secretary of CTEVT, Mr. Jeeb Narayan Kafle. ""The MOU between CTEVT and Nabil is a milestone way forward to the entrepreneur development and sustainable development goals of the nation,"" Kafle stated. The Bank seeks to establish a social entrepreneurship school along the journey to take the initiation to a grander level. The Bank has also taken initiatives in developing collaborations with various institutions for capacity building for entrepreneurship development of the people as well as training its own employee in the area.   The Bank also aims to focus its CSR activities on developing entrepreneurship amongst the people in the country as it believes in equipping people in providing skills for income-generating activities and providing needed financing support to make it happen. Furthermore, Nabil Bank Chairman Poudyal recently echoed with the Central Bank authorities on the need for developing a Sustainable Banking Roadmap for the country. Poudyal believes his vision, and the vision of bankers like him will be materialized faster if reinforced by the regulatory authorities. He echoed that sooner or later, we need to “Change Finance to Finance Change’. Sustainable Banking is not a deviation from core banking, Poudyal believes; as a matter of fact, it is its future. Chairman's Concluding Message to the Reader: Interview led by Rachit Agrawal, Executive Chairman, Sharesansar. Article crafted and compiled by Samin Gurung, Media Officer, Sharesansar. Technical support from Samyak Shakya. "
2021-07-18,"Public Issue of ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085"" to Open on Shrawan 10",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/public-issue-of-8-nabil-bank-debenture-2085-to-open-on-shrawan-10-2021-07-18,"Nabil Bank Limited has published an offer letter to issue the ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085."" The issue will open on 10th Shrawan and conclude on 13th Shrawan, 2078. If not subscribed by the early closing date, the deadline can be extended till Shrawan 24. 30,00,000 units will be issued at a par value of Rs.1000 per unit. Of the total issue, 18 lakh units will be subscribed via private placement and 12 lakh units will be issued to the general public, including a 5% quota for mutual funds. Investors can apply for a minimum of 25 units to a maximum of the entire issue size. As the name suggests, ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085"" has a maturity period of 7 years and will yield 8% annual returns to unitholders. Offer Letter  Nabil Bank Limited has published an offer letter to issue the ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085."" The issue will open on 10th Shrawan and conclude on 13th Shrawan, 2078. If not subscribed by the early closing date, the deadline can be extended till Shrawan 24. 30,00,000 units will be issued at a par value of Rs.1000 per unit. Of the total issue, 18 lakh units will be subscribed via private placement and 12 lakh units will be issued to the general public, including a 5% quota for mutual funds. Investors can apply for a minimum of 25 units to a maximum of the entire issue size. As the name suggests, ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085"" has a maturity period of 7 years and will yield 8% annual returns to unitholders. Offer Letter  Nabil Bank Limited has published an offer letter to issue the ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085."" The issue will open on 10th Shrawan and conclude on 13th Shrawan, 2078. If not subscribed by the early closing date, the deadline can be extended till Shrawan 24. 30,00,000 units will be issued at a par value of Rs.1000 per unit. Of the total issue, 18 lakh units will be subscribed via private placement and 12 lakh units will be issued to the general public, including a 5% quota for mutual funds. Investors can apply for a minimum of 25 units to a maximum of the entire issue size. As the name suggests, ""8% Nabil Bank Debenture 2085"" has a maturity period of 7 years and will yield 8% annual returns to unitholders. Offer Letter  "
2021-07-15,Commercial Banks Update Interest Rates for Shrawan; What Has Changed?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-update-interest-rates-for-shrawan-what-has-changed-2021-07-15,"Commercial Banks have updated their interest rates profile for the month of Shrawan. The update will be effective from tomorrow, i.e. Shrawan 01. The interest rates on savings have not changed for Rastriya Banijya Bank. The bank will give annual interest payments in the range of 3-5% on savings, which is also the interest rates range for Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank, with the most savings products generating interest payments in the upper limit of that range. Fixed deposits will yield 7-8% for individuals and 7.5-8% for institutions at NCCB. This range hasn't changed from last time. Similarly, the normal savings account will only yield 2.5% at Standard Chartered Bank. This figure hasn't changed from last month. Individual fixed depositors will yield in the range of 4.5-7%, and the base rate of the commercial bank as of Chaitra last year is 5.33%. NMB Bank Limited will give interest payment in the range of 2.5-4.5 p.a in Shrawan. This is a decrement, given that the range was 3.6-5.6% in the previous month. Individuals will get interest payments in the range of 6.5-7.5 p.a. on fixed deposits. Machhapuchchhre Bank Limited will now pay 2.05-4% on savings compared to Ashar's rate range of 3.1-4%. Most savings schemes will yield the lower limit of the range, i.e. 2.05%, which is down from last month's rate of 3.1%. Individual fixed depositors will yield 7.05%, compared to last month's range of 7.51%. The industry giant Nabil Bank itself has brought down its interest rate profile. Savings schemes will now yield 1.51-3.51%. This range was 2.51-4.51% for Ashar. This article performed data sampling on a randomly selected list of commercial banks, and data shows that commercial banks have once again brought their interest rates down. The individual interest rate updates of the commercial banks can be found on the company profile of each commercial bank on our portal. Commercial Banks have updated their interest rates profile for the month of Shrawan. The update will be effective from tomorrow, i.e. Shrawan 01. The interest rates on savings have not changed for Rastriya Banijya Bank. The bank will give annual interest payments in the range of 3-5% on savings, which is also the interest rates range for Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank, with the most savings products generating interest payments in the upper limit of that range. Fixed deposits will yield 7-8% for individuals and 7.5-8% for institutions at NCCB. This range hasn't changed from last time. Similarly, the normal savings account will only yield 2.5% at Standard Chartered Bank. This figure hasn't changed from last month. Individual fixed depositors will yield in the range of 4.5-7%, and the base rate of the commercial bank as of Chaitra last year is 5.33%. NMB Bank Limited will give interest payment in the range of 2.5-4.5 p.a in Shrawan. This is a decrement, given that the range was 3.6-5.6% in the previous month. Individuals will get interest payments in the range of 6.5-7.5 p.a. on fixed deposits. Machhapuchchhre Bank Limited will now pay 2.05-4% on savings compared to Ashar's rate range of 3.1-4%. Most savings schemes will yield the lower limit of the range, i.e. 2.05%, which is down from last month's rate of 3.1%. Individual fixed depositors will yield 7.05%, compared to last month's range of 7.51%. The industry giant Nabil Bank itself has brought down its interest rate profile. Savings schemes will now yield 1.51-3.51%. This range was 2.51-4.51% for Ashar. This article performed data sampling on a randomly selected list of commercial banks, and data shows that commercial banks have once again brought their interest rates down. The individual interest rate updates of the commercial banks can be found on the company profile of each commercial bank on our portal. Commercial Banks have updated their interest rates profile for the month of Shrawan. The update will be effective from tomorrow, i.e. Shrawan 01. The interest rates on savings have not changed for Rastriya Banijya Bank. The bank will give annual interest payments in the range of 3-5% on savings, which is also the interest rates range for Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank, with the most savings products generating interest payments in the upper limit of that range. Fixed deposits will yield 7-8% for individuals and 7.5-8% for institutions at NCCB. This range hasn't changed from last time. Similarly, the normal savings account will only yield 2.5% at Standard Chartered Bank. This figure hasn't changed from last month. Individual fixed depositors will yield in the range of 4.5-7%, and the base rate of the commercial bank as of Chaitra last year is 5.33%. NMB Bank Limited will give interest payment in the range of 2.5-4.5 p.a in Shrawan. This is a decrement, given that the range was 3.6-5.6% in the previous month. Individuals will get interest payments in the range of 6.5-7.5 p.a. on fixed deposits. Machhapuchchhre Bank Limited will now pay 2.05-4% on savings compared to Ashar's rate range of 3.1-4%. Most savings schemes will yield the lower limit of the range, i.e. 2.05%, which is down from last month's rate of 3.1%. Individual fixed depositors will yield 7.05%, compared to last month's range of 7.51%. The industry giant Nabil Bank itself has brought down its interest rate profile. Savings schemes will now yield 1.51-3.51%. This range was 2.51-4.51% for Ashar. This article performed data sampling on a randomly selected list of commercial banks, and data shows that commercial banks have once again brought their interest rates down. The individual interest rate updates of the commercial banks can be found on the company profile of each commercial bank on our portal. "
2021-07-15,Allotment Concludes for Nabil Bank's auction of Swabalamban Laghubitta Promoter Shares,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/allotment-concludes-for-nabil-banks-auction-of-swabalamban-laghubitta-promoter-shares-2021-07-15,"The allotment has concluded for Nabil Bank Limited's auction of the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited. The auction opened on 18th Ashar and closed on 29th Ashar, 2078. 1,89,653 units promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta were auctioned. Existing promoters, individuals, and institutions were all eligible to bid for the auction. Rs. 700 was the minimum bid rate and 1000 was the minimum bid quantity. Nabil Invest was appointed the auction manager. The auction manager has stated that only 53,100 shares have been allotted to all bidders who bid at or above the minimum price. Thus, 1,36,553 shares are still unsold. If all shares were to be auctioned away at an average price of Rs. 700 per share (i.e. the minimum bid rate), this auction would add an extra Rs. 13,27,57,100 as non-operating revenue in the books of Nabil Bank. Allotment notice The allotment has concluded for Nabil Bank Limited's auction of the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited. The auction opened on 18th Ashar and closed on 29th Ashar, 2078. 1,89,653 units promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta were auctioned. Existing promoters, individuals, and institutions were all eligible to bid for the auction. Rs. 700 was the minimum bid rate and 1000 was the minimum bid quantity. Nabil Invest was appointed the auction manager. The auction manager has stated that only 53,100 shares have been allotted to all bidders who bid at or above the minimum price. Thus, 1,36,553 shares are still unsold. If all shares were to be auctioned away at an average price of Rs. 700 per share (i.e. the minimum bid rate), this auction would add an extra Rs. 13,27,57,100 as non-operating revenue in the books of Nabil Bank. Allotment notice The allotment has concluded for Nabil Bank Limited's auction of the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited. The auction opened on 18th Ashar and closed on 29th Ashar, 2078. 1,89,653 units promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta were auctioned. Existing promoters, individuals, and institutions were all eligible to bid for the auction. Rs. 700 was the minimum bid rate and 1000 was the minimum bid quantity. Nabil Invest was appointed the auction manager. The auction manager has stated that only 53,100 shares have been allotted to all bidders who bid at or above the minimum price. Thus, 1,36,553 shares are still unsold. If all shares were to be auctioned away at an average price of Rs. 700 per share (i.e. the minimum bid rate), this auction would add an extra Rs. 13,27,57,100 as non-operating revenue in the books of Nabil Bank. Allotment notice "
2021-07-13,Nabil Bank hands over Oxygen Plant to Bir Hospital on the occasion of its 37th anniversary,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-hands-over-oxygen-plant-to-bir-hospital-on-the-occasion-of-its-37th-anniversary-2021-07-13,"Nabil Bank has handed over an oxygen plant to the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Bir Hospital). The plant was handed over to Bir Hospital during a formal event organized today. The Bank has handed over the plant on the day of its 37th anniversary. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between the Bank and National Academy of Medical Sciences (NAMS), Bir Hospital on 18th May 2021 for installation of the oxygen plant within the premises of Bir Hospital. As per the MoU, Nabil Bank has provided financial support for setting up the oxygen plant with a capacity of 50 Nm3/H and Bir Hospital has provided the required space. The oxygen plant will be able to fill 150 cylinders of 40 liters per day.   During the second wave of COVID-19, many people lost their lives due to a lack of proper treatment and oxygen shortage. As some parts of the world are facing a third wave, the Bank believes that the oxygen plant will help respond to the third wave by supplying oxygen to patients. From the very beginning, the Bank has undertaken various CSR activities to help prevent and control the ongoing pandemic including financial support worth NPR 60 million provided to Nepal Government’s Corona Relief Fund. Similarly, the Bank has supported the initiative on “Strengthening Local Health Systems for Preparedness and Response to Pandemics” under which 330 health practitioners from all seven provinces were provided with the training. Now, with the intention of extending support to curb the shortage of oxygen and prepare for the worst-case scenario in the third wave of COVID, the Bank has stepped forward to install an oxygen plant at Bir Hospital Nabil Bank has handed over an oxygen plant to the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Bir Hospital). The plant was handed over to Bir Hospital during a formal event organized today. The Bank has handed over the plant on the day of its 37th anniversary. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between the Bank and National Academy of Medical Sciences (NAMS), Bir Hospital on 18th May 2021 for installation of the oxygen plant within the premises of Bir Hospital. As per the MoU, Nabil Bank has provided financial support for setting up the oxygen plant with a capacity of 50 Nm3/H and Bir Hospital has provided the required space. The oxygen plant will be able to fill 150 cylinders of 40 liters per day.   During the second wave of COVID-19, many people lost their lives due to a lack of proper treatment and oxygen shortage. As some parts of the world are facing a third wave, the Bank believes that the oxygen plant will help respond to the third wave by supplying oxygen to patients. From the very beginning, the Bank has undertaken various CSR activities to help prevent and control the ongoing pandemic including financial support worth NPR 60 million provided to Nepal Government’s Corona Relief Fund. Similarly, the Bank has supported the initiative on “Strengthening Local Health Systems for Preparedness and Response to Pandemics” under which 330 health practitioners from all seven provinces were provided with the training. Now, with the intention of extending support to curb the shortage of oxygen and prepare for the worst-case scenario in the third wave of COVID, the Bank has stepped forward to install an oxygen plant at Bir Hospital Nabil Bank has handed over an oxygen plant to the National Academy of Medical Sciences (Bir Hospital). The plant was handed over to Bir Hospital during a formal event organized today. The Bank has handed over the plant on the day of its 37th anniversary. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between the Bank and National Academy of Medical Sciences (NAMS), Bir Hospital on 18th May 2021 for installation of the oxygen plant within the premises of Bir Hospital. As per the MoU, Nabil Bank has provided financial support for setting up the oxygen plant with a capacity of 50 Nm3/H and Bir Hospital has provided the required space. The oxygen plant will be able to fill 150 cylinders of 40 liters per day.   During the second wave of COVID-19, many people lost their lives due to a lack of proper treatment and oxygen shortage. As some parts of the world are facing a third wave, the Bank believes that the oxygen plant will help respond to the third wave by supplying oxygen to patients. From the very beginning, the Bank has undertaken various CSR activities to help prevent and control the ongoing pandemic including financial support worth NPR 60 million provided to Nepal Government’s Corona Relief Fund. Similarly, the Bank has supported the initiative on “Strengthening Local Health Systems for Preparedness and Response to Pandemics” under which 330 health practitioners from all seven provinces were provided with the training. Now, with the intention of extending support to curb the shortage of oxygen and prepare for the worst-case scenario in the third wave of COVID, the Bank has stepped forward to install an oxygen plant at Bir Hospital "
2021-07-13,Nabil Bank launches 37th-anniversary special scheme; to provide range of discounts on several banking products for coming 37 days,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-37th-anniversary-special-scheme-to-provide-range-of-discounts-on-several-banking-products-for-coming-37-days-2021-07-13,"Nabil Bank has launched a 37-day special offer for the customers amid its 37th anniversary special event. Under this scheme, customers opening new personal saving accounts with the bank between Asad 29 till Bhadra 1, 2078 will get a special discount while availing debit card, credit card, mobile, and smart banking service as well in locker services, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has launched a 37-day special offer for the customers amid its 37th anniversary special event. Under this scheme, customers opening new personal saving accounts with the bank between Asad 29 till Bhadra 1, 2078 will get a special discount while availing debit card, credit card, mobile, and smart banking service as well in locker services, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has launched a 37-day special offer for the customers amid its 37th anniversary special event. Under this scheme, customers opening new personal saving accounts with the bank between Asad 29 till Bhadra 1, 2078 will get a special discount while availing debit card, credit card, mobile, and smart banking service as well in locker services, as per the media statement. "
2021-07-11,Nabil Bank Begins Joint Operation After Successful Acquisition of United Finance Limited,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-begins-joint-operation-after-successful-acquisition-of-united-finance-limited-2021-07-11,"Nabil Bank Limited and United Finance Limited have begun joint operation from 11 July 2021, i.e. 27 Asadh 2078 after a successful acquisition process. Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Chairman of Nabil Bank, and Mr. Basanta Kumar Chaudhary, Chairman of United Finance Limited inaugurated the joint operation at a program organized today.  Mr. Poudyal mentioned that the bank has moved ahead with the acquisition process in line with the Nepal Rastra Bank’s policy provisions. Mr. Poudyal stated, ""We are confident that this achievement will make a significant contribution towards Nabil Bank’s upcoming business activities and the overall financial sector of the country."" After the acquisition, the Bank’s paid-up capital and total capital will increase to NRs. 13.85 billion and NRs. 32.68 billion respectively. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 135 with 36 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 183. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network, the press release states. Nabil Bank Limited and United Finance Limited have begun joint operation from 11 July 2021, i.e. 27 Asadh 2078 after a successful acquisition process. Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Chairman of Nabil Bank, and Mr. Basanta Kumar Chaudhary, Chairman of United Finance Limited inaugurated the joint operation at a program organized today.  Mr. Poudyal mentioned that the bank has moved ahead with the acquisition process in line with the Nepal Rastra Bank’s policy provisions. Mr. Poudyal stated, ""We are confident that this achievement will make a significant contribution towards Nabil Bank’s upcoming business activities and the overall financial sector of the country."" After the acquisition, the Bank’s paid-up capital and total capital will increase to NRs. 13.85 billion and NRs. 32.68 billion respectively. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 135 with 36 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 183. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network, the press release states. Nabil Bank Limited and United Finance Limited have begun joint operation from 11 July 2021, i.e. 27 Asadh 2078 after a successful acquisition process. Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Chairman of Nabil Bank, and Mr. Basanta Kumar Chaudhary, Chairman of United Finance Limited inaugurated the joint operation at a program organized today.  Mr. Poudyal mentioned that the bank has moved ahead with the acquisition process in line with the Nepal Rastra Bank’s policy provisions. Mr. Poudyal stated, ""We are confident that this achievement will make a significant contribution towards Nabil Bank’s upcoming business activities and the overall financial sector of the country."" After the acquisition, the Bank’s paid-up capital and total capital will increase to NRs. 13.85 billion and NRs. 32.68 billion respectively. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 135 with 36 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 183. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network, the press release states. "
2021-07-07,Bankers in Kawaswoti go on strike against unilateral decision to enforce Social Security Fund,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/bankers-in-kawaswoti-go-on-strike-against-unilateral-decision-to-enforce-social-security-fund-2021-07-07,"Employees working in different banks and financial institutions at Kawaswoti of Nawalparasi have organized a mass demonstration against the decision to forcefully implement Social Security Fund (SSF) among the banking employees.  The protest event was organized under the leadership of the Kawaswoti Bankers Association where all the bankers have vowed to continue their protest until the government revises the contentious provisions in the SSF Act, as per the media statement. Employees working in different banks and financial institutions at Kawaswoti of Nawalparasi have organized a mass demonstration against the decision to forcefully implement Social Security Fund (SSF) among the banking employees.  The protest event was organized under the leadership of the Kawaswoti Bankers Association where all the bankers have vowed to continue their protest until the government revises the contentious provisions in the SSF Act, as per the media statement. Employees working in different banks and financial institutions at Kawaswoti of Nawalparasi have organized a mass demonstration against the decision to forcefully implement Social Security Fund (SSF) among the banking employees.  The protest event was organized under the leadership of the Kawaswoti Bankers Association where all the bankers have vowed to continue their protest until the government revises the contentious provisions in the SSF Act, as per the media statement. "
2021-07-05,Nabil Bank to Commence Joint Operation from Ashar 27 After Acquisiton of United Finance,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-commence-joint-operation-from-ashar-27-after-acquisiton-of-united-finance-2021-07-05,"The 568th meeting of the board of directors of Nabil Bank held on Ashar 20 has decided to commence joint operation from Ashar 27 after the acquisition of United Finance Limited. Nepal Rastra Bank recently gave the final approval to Nabil Bank for the acquisition of United Finance Limited. Nabil Bank and United Finance called their respective SGM on 5th Ashad, 2078 to endorse the acquisition of the latter by the former. Industry giant Nabil Bank signed an acquisition agreement with United Finance Limited on Friday, Baisakh 17, in a program held in the commercial bank's office. As per the agreement, an acquisition agreement was signed in a swap ratio of 1: 0.35. Following the acquisition, it has been agreed that all of United Finance’s business transactions will be in the name of Nabil Bank and the Bank’s current board members will remain as the board of directors. After the acquisition, the bank’s paid-up capital will increase to NRs. 13.85 billion. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 147 with 37 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 190. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network, the press release reads. The 568th meeting of the board of directors of Nabil Bank held on Ashar 20 has decided to commence joint operation from Ashar 27 after the acquisition of United Finance Limited. Nepal Rastra Bank recently gave the final approval to Nabil Bank for the acquisition of United Finance Limited. Nabil Bank and United Finance called their respective SGM on 5th Ashad, 2078 to endorse the acquisition of the latter by the former. Industry giant Nabil Bank signed an acquisition agreement with United Finance Limited on Friday, Baisakh 17, in a program held in the commercial bank's office. As per the agreement, an acquisition agreement was signed in a swap ratio of 1: 0.35. Following the acquisition, it has been agreed that all of United Finance’s business transactions will be in the name of Nabil Bank and the Bank’s current board members will remain as the board of directors. After the acquisition, the bank’s paid-up capital will increase to NRs. 13.85 billion. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 147 with 37 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 190. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network, the press release reads. The 568th meeting of the board of directors of Nabil Bank held on Ashar 20 has decided to commence joint operation from Ashar 27 after the acquisition of United Finance Limited. Nepal Rastra Bank recently gave the final approval to Nabil Bank for the acquisition of United Finance Limited. Nabil Bank and United Finance called their respective SGM on 5th Ashad, 2078 to endorse the acquisition of the latter by the former. Industry giant Nabil Bank signed an acquisition agreement with United Finance Limited on Friday, Baisakh 17, in a program held in the commercial bank's office. As per the agreement, an acquisition agreement was signed in a swap ratio of 1: 0.35. Following the acquisition, it has been agreed that all of United Finance’s business transactions will be in the name of Nabil Bank and the Bank’s current board members will remain as the board of directors. After the acquisition, the bank’s paid-up capital will increase to NRs. 13.85 billion. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 147 with 37 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 190. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network, the press release reads. "
2021-07-02,"Nabil Auctioning 1,89,653 Promoter Shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta From Today",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-auctioning-189653-promoter-shares-of-swabalamban-laghubitta-from-today-2021-07-02,"Nabil Bank Limited is auctioning the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited. The auction will open on 18th Ashar and conclude on 29th Ashar, 2078. 1,89,653 units promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta will be auctioned. Existing promoters, individuals, and institutions are all eligible to bid for the auction. Rs. 700 is the minimum bid rate and 1000 is the minimum bid quantity. Bidders can bid for the entirety of shares. However, bidders are required to abide by Nepal Rastra Bank's rule to not exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Nabil Invest is appointed the auction manager. Bids will be opened at the premises of the auction manager on Shrawan 30 starting at 10 am that day.  Auction notice   Nabil Bank Limited is auctioning the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited. The auction will open on 18th Ashar and conclude on 29th Ashar, 2078. 1,89,653 units promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta will be auctioned. Existing promoters, individuals, and institutions are all eligible to bid for the auction. Rs. 700 is the minimum bid rate and 1000 is the minimum bid quantity. Bidders can bid for the entirety of shares. However, bidders are required to abide by Nepal Rastra Bank's rule to not exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Nabil Invest is appointed the auction manager. Bids will be opened at the premises of the auction manager on Shrawan 30 starting at 10 am that day.  Auction notice   Nabil Bank Limited is auctioning the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited. The auction will open on 18th Ashar and conclude on 29th Ashar, 2078. 1,89,653 units promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta will be auctioned. Existing promoters, individuals, and institutions are all eligible to bid for the auction. Rs. 700 is the minimum bid rate and 1000 is the minimum bid quantity. Bidders can bid for the entirety of shares. However, bidders are required to abide by Nepal Rastra Bank's rule to not exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Nabil Invest is appointed the auction manager. Bids will be opened at the premises of the auction manager on Shrawan 30 starting at 10 am that day.  Auction notice   "
2021-06-30,Central Bank Gives Final Nod of Approval for Nabil Bank's Acquisition of United Finance,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/central-bank-gives-final-nod-of-approval-for-nabil-banks-acquisition-of-united-finance-2021-06-30,"Nepal Rastra Bank has given the final approval to Nabil Bank for the acquisition of United Finance Limited. Nabil Bank and United Finance called their respective SGM on 5th Ashad, 2078 to endorse the acquisition of the latter by the former. Industry giant Nabil Bank signed an acquisition agreement with United Finance Limited on Friday, Baisakh 17, in a program held in the commercial bank's office. As per the agreement, an acquisition agreement was signed in a swap ratio of 1: 0.35. Following the acquisition, it has been agreed that all of United Finance’s business transactions will be in the name of Nabil Bank and the Bank’s current board members will remain as the board of directors. After the acquisition, the Bank’s paid-up capital will increase to NRs. 13.85 billion. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 147 with 37 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 190. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network. Nepal Rastra Bank has given the final approval to Nabil Bank for the acquisition of United Finance Limited. Nabil Bank and United Finance called their respective SGM on 5th Ashad, 2078 to endorse the acquisition of the latter by the former. Industry giant Nabil Bank signed an acquisition agreement with United Finance Limited on Friday, Baisakh 17, in a program held in the commercial bank's office. As per the agreement, an acquisition agreement was signed in a swap ratio of 1: 0.35. Following the acquisition, it has been agreed that all of United Finance’s business transactions will be in the name of Nabil Bank and the Bank’s current board members will remain as the board of directors. After the acquisition, the Bank’s paid-up capital will increase to NRs. 13.85 billion. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 147 with 37 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 190. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network. Nepal Rastra Bank has given the final approval to Nabil Bank for the acquisition of United Finance Limited. Nabil Bank and United Finance called their respective SGM on 5th Ashad, 2078 to endorse the acquisition of the latter by the former. Industry giant Nabil Bank signed an acquisition agreement with United Finance Limited on Friday, Baisakh 17, in a program held in the commercial bank's office. As per the agreement, an acquisition agreement was signed in a swap ratio of 1: 0.35. Following the acquisition, it has been agreed that all of United Finance’s business transactions will be in the name of Nabil Bank and the Bank’s current board members will remain as the board of directors. After the acquisition, the Bank’s paid-up capital will increase to NRs. 13.85 billion. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 147 with 37 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 190. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network. "
2021-06-30,Nabil Bank launches Nabil Sustainable Banking; aims at extending financial access to unbanked locations while promoting entrepreneurship in most remote corners,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-nabil-sustainable-banking-aims-at-extending-financial-access-to-unbanked-locations-while-promoting-entrepreneurship-in-most-remote-corners-2021-06-30,"Nabil Bank, the first private sector bank in the country, has launched Nabil Sustainable Banking Unit through a virtual program today. Through Nabil Sustainable Banking (NSB), the Bank aims at extending financial access to the unbanked while promoting entrepreneurship in the most remote corners of the country. Aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, NSB seeks to intervene across geographic, demographic, and economic strata to facilitate the creation of sustainable micro-enterprises for a better Nepal.  Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Chairman of the Bank stated, ‘The overall Banking sector has been able to touch millions of lives and make a difference in all respect. Over the years, we have grown and so has the size of the economy, lives of individuals, and businesses. We need to remain mindful of the impacts we’ve made in the lives of the people, environment, community, national economy, and the country as a whole. Therefore, Nabil Bank has established a Sustainable Banking Department, a focused banking approach to support the real economy at the grassroots level. We are not only focused on profit maximization but on maximizing integrated value which combines financial, social, and economic value. With this, we will consider the impact on companies we invest on, the society and the overall ecosystem.’ Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of the Bank introduced Sustainable Banking as a new discipline in the banking sector, which is gaining increasing importance every day due to its impact on the plant and people. Nabil Bank, a pioneer bank in the industry, has brought the concept of Sustainability into its strategic direction. The bank has already been working toward Green Banking, Carbon Accounting in its lending portfolios, and lending to create a sustainable impact on rural and backward people. The Bank has launched two products namely Nabil Kisan Karza and Nabil Udhyamsil Karza targeting entrepreneurship development and commercialization of agriculture for the people of rural areas and in the people segment having low Access to Finance. Though these products have been rolled out through all the branches across the nation, the bank shall focus on 17 selected rural branches to concentrate its Sustainable activities for creating a sustainable impact on the backward population. Working toward its Sustainable priorities, the Bank has also signed an MOU with the Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training (CTEVT) for bridging the gap of Access to Finance to the trained graduate of CTEVT. Through this MOU, the bank shall provide its sustainable and other microfinance/deprived sector products to students/graduates of CTEVT and its affiliates across the nation.  This will help promote entrepreneurship development in these trained resources. The MOU was signed by the CEO of the Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, and Member Secretary of CTEVT Mr. Jeeb Narayan Kafle. Member Secretary of CTEVT has stated that the MOU between CTEVT and Nabil is a milestone way forward to the entrepreneur development and Sustainable Development Goal of the nation.       Nabil Bank, the first private sector bank in the country, has launched Nabil Sustainable Banking Unit through a virtual program today. Through Nabil Sustainable Banking (NSB), the Bank aims at extending financial access to the unbanked while promoting entrepreneurship in the most remote corners of the country. Aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, NSB seeks to intervene across geographic, demographic, and economic strata to facilitate the creation of sustainable micro-enterprises for a better Nepal.  Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Chairman of the Bank stated, ‘The overall Banking sector has been able to touch millions of lives and make a difference in all respect. Over the years, we have grown and so has the size of the economy, lives of individuals, and businesses. We need to remain mindful of the impacts we’ve made in the lives of the people, environment, community, national economy, and the country as a whole. Therefore, Nabil Bank has established a Sustainable Banking Department, a focused banking approach to support the real economy at the grassroots level. We are not only focused on profit maximization but on maximizing integrated value which combines financial, social, and economic value. With this, we will consider the impact on companies we invest on, the society and the overall ecosystem.’ Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of the Bank introduced Sustainable Banking as a new discipline in the banking sector, which is gaining increasing importance every day due to its impact on the plant and people. Nabil Bank, a pioneer bank in the industry, has brought the concept of Sustainability into its strategic direction. The bank has already been working toward Green Banking, Carbon Accounting in its lending portfolios, and lending to create a sustainable impact on rural and backward people. The Bank has launched two products namely Nabil Kisan Karza and Nabil Udhyamsil Karza targeting entrepreneurship development and commercialization of agriculture for the people of rural areas and in the people segment having low Access to Finance. Though these products have been rolled out through all the branches across the nation, the bank shall focus on 17 selected rural branches to concentrate its Sustainable activities for creating a sustainable impact on the backward population. Working toward its Sustainable priorities, the Bank has also signed an MOU with the Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training (CTEVT) for bridging the gap of Access to Finance to the trained graduate of CTEVT. Through this MOU, the bank shall provide its sustainable and other microfinance/deprived sector products to students/graduates of CTEVT and its affiliates across the nation.  This will help promote entrepreneurship development in these trained resources. The MOU was signed by the CEO of the Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, and Member Secretary of CTEVT Mr. Jeeb Narayan Kafle. Member Secretary of CTEVT has stated that the MOU between CTEVT and Nabil is a milestone way forward to the entrepreneur development and Sustainable Development Goal of the nation.       Nabil Bank, the first private sector bank in the country, has launched Nabil Sustainable Banking Unit through a virtual program today. Through Nabil Sustainable Banking (NSB), the Bank aims at extending financial access to the unbanked while promoting entrepreneurship in the most remote corners of the country. Aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, NSB seeks to intervene across geographic, demographic, and economic strata to facilitate the creation of sustainable micro-enterprises for a better Nepal.  Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Chairman of the Bank stated, ‘The overall Banking sector has been able to touch millions of lives and make a difference in all respect. Over the years, we have grown and so has the size of the economy, lives of individuals, and businesses. We need to remain mindful of the impacts we’ve made in the lives of the people, environment, community, national economy, and the country as a whole. Therefore, Nabil Bank has established a Sustainable Banking Department, a focused banking approach to support the real economy at the grassroots level. We are not only focused on profit maximization but on maximizing integrated value which combines financial, social, and economic value. With this, we will consider the impact on companies we invest on, the society and the overall ecosystem.’ Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of the Bank introduced Sustainable Banking as a new discipline in the banking sector, which is gaining increasing importance every day due to its impact on the plant and people. Nabil Bank, a pioneer bank in the industry, has brought the concept of Sustainability into its strategic direction. The bank has already been working toward Green Banking, Carbon Accounting in its lending portfolios, and lending to create a sustainable impact on rural and backward people. The Bank has launched two products namely Nabil Kisan Karza and Nabil Udhyamsil Karza targeting entrepreneurship development and commercialization of agriculture for the people of rural areas and in the people segment having low Access to Finance. Though these products have been rolled out through all the branches across the nation, the bank shall focus on 17 selected rural branches to concentrate its Sustainable activities for creating a sustainable impact on the backward population. Working toward its Sustainable priorities, the Bank has also signed an MOU with the Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training (CTEVT) for bridging the gap of Access to Finance to the trained graduate of CTEVT. Through this MOU, the bank shall provide its sustainable and other microfinance/deprived sector products to students/graduates of CTEVT and its affiliates across the nation.  This will help promote entrepreneurship development in these trained resources. The MOU was signed by the CEO of the Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, and Member Secretary of CTEVT Mr. Jeeb Narayan Kafle. Member Secretary of CTEVT has stated that the MOU between CTEVT and Nabil is a milestone way forward to the entrepreneur development and Sustainable Development Goal of the nation.       "
2021-06-20,"Nabil Bank Auctioning 1,90,653 Promoter Shares of SWBBL",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-auctioning-190653-promoter-shares-of-swbbl-2021-06-20,"Nabil Bank Limited is auctioning the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited. The auction will open on 6th Ashar i.e. today onwards and close on 15th Ashar, 2078. 1,90,653 unit promoter shares of the microfinance company will be auctioned. Individuals, institutions, and existing promoters are all eligible to bid for the auction. Rs. 750 is the minimum bid rate for the auction. While the minimum bid quantity for shares is 1000 units, there is no upper limit for both shares. Although bidders can bid for the entirety of the issue, they are required to abide by Nepal Rastra Bank's rule to not exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Nabil Invest has been appointed the auction manager for the auction. Auction notice Nabil Bank Limited is auctioning the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited. The auction will open on 6th Ashar i.e. today onwards and close on 15th Ashar, 2078. 1,90,653 unit promoter shares of the microfinance company will be auctioned. Individuals, institutions, and existing promoters are all eligible to bid for the auction. Rs. 750 is the minimum bid rate for the auction. While the minimum bid quantity for shares is 1000 units, there is no upper limit for both shares. Although bidders can bid for the entirety of the issue, they are required to abide by Nepal Rastra Bank's rule to not exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Nabil Invest has been appointed the auction manager for the auction. Auction notice Nabil Bank Limited is auctioning the promoter shares of Swabalamban Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited. The auction will open on 6th Ashar i.e. today onwards and close on 15th Ashar, 2078. 1,90,653 unit promoter shares of the microfinance company will be auctioned. Individuals, institutions, and existing promoters are all eligible to bid for the auction. Rs. 750 is the minimum bid rate for the auction. While the minimum bid quantity for shares is 1000 units, there is no upper limit for both shares. Although bidders can bid for the entirety of the issue, they are required to abide by Nepal Rastra Bank's rule to not exceed the specified quantity of shares per entity. Nabil Invest has been appointed the auction manager for the auction. Auction notice "
2021-06-18,Pay Online to Get 15% Off; 3 More Banks Join Daraz's Bank Days Offer,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/pay-online-to-get-15-off-3-more-banks-join-darazs-bank-days-offer-2021-06-18,"Daraz, the leading online marketplace in Nepal, has joined hands with Machhapuchchhre Bank, Mega Bank, and Himalayan Bank to offer 15% (Max NPR 500) on card pre-payments for its customers from Thursday, June 17th, 2021. The 3 new banks join Sanima Bank, NIC Asia Bank, Nabil Bank, and Standard Chartered Bank for Daraz's Bank Days Offer.  Under Daraz Bank Days discount offer, customers enjoy discounts on card pre-payments throughout the week.  Machhapuchchhre Bank, Mega Bank, and Himalayan Bank will offer discounts every Thursday on card pre-payments. Details are as below: Under Daraz Bank Days discount offer, customers enjoy similar discounts from other partner banks throughout the week. The details are as follows: Credit/ Debit cards activated for online payments are eligible for the offer, if a customer's card isn't activated they can follow the direction provided by banks on the daraz app or contact their banks. In addition, interested customers can apply for Credit cards for any of the above-mentioned banks. Daraz, the leading online marketplace in Nepal, has joined hands with Machhapuchchhre Bank, Mega Bank, and Himalayan Bank to offer 15% (Max NPR 500) on card pre-payments for its customers from Thursday, June 17th, 2021. The 3 new banks join Sanima Bank, NIC Asia Bank, Nabil Bank, and Standard Chartered Bank for Daraz's Bank Days Offer.  Under Daraz Bank Days discount offer, customers enjoy discounts on card pre-payments throughout the week.  Machhapuchchhre Bank, Mega Bank, and Himalayan Bank will offer discounts every Thursday on card pre-payments. Details are as below: Under Daraz Bank Days discount offer, customers enjoy similar discounts from other partner banks throughout the week. The details are as follows: Credit/ Debit cards activated for online payments are eligible for the offer, if a customer's card isn't activated they can follow the direction provided by banks on the daraz app or contact their banks. In addition, interested customers can apply for Credit cards for any of the above-mentioned banks. Daraz, the leading online marketplace in Nepal, has joined hands with Machhapuchchhre Bank, Mega Bank, and Himalayan Bank to offer 15% (Max NPR 500) on card pre-payments for its customers from Thursday, June 17th, 2021. The 3 new banks join Sanima Bank, NIC Asia Bank, Nabil Bank, and Standard Chartered Bank for Daraz's Bank Days Offer.  Under Daraz Bank Days discount offer, customers enjoy discounts on card pre-payments throughout the week.  Machhapuchchhre Bank, Mega Bank, and Himalayan Bank will offer discounts every Thursday on card pre-payments. Details are as below: Under Daraz Bank Days discount offer, customers enjoy similar discounts from other partner banks throughout the week. The details are as follows: Credit/ Debit cards activated for online payments are eligible for the offer, if a customer's card isn't activated they can follow the direction provided by banks on the daraz app or contact their banks. In addition, interested customers can apply for Credit cards for any of the above-mentioned banks. "
2021-06-14,Banks Raise Interest Rates for Ashad,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/banks-raise-interest-rates-for-ashad-2021-06-14,"Commercial Banks have updated the interest rates profile for the month of Ashad. The update will be effective from tomorrow, i.e. Ashad 01. The interest rates on savings have not changed for Rastriya Banijya Bank. The bank will give annual interest payments in the range of 3-5% on savings, which is also the interest rates range for Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank, with the most savings products generating interest payments in the upper limit of that range. Fixed deposits will yield 5.5-7.1% for individuals and 5-6.5% for institutions. Thus, this hasn't changed from last month either. Individual fixed depositors will yield in the range of 7-8%, just like in the previous month. In contrast, institutions will yield 7.5-8%, compared to 6.-8% in the previous month. Similarly, the normal savings account will only yield 2.5% at Standard Chartered Bank. This figure was even lower last month, i.e. at 2%. Individual fixed depositors will yield in the range of 4.5-7%, compared to last month's range of 4.5-6%. The base rate of the commercial bank as of Chaitra last year is 5.33%. NMB Bank Limited will give interest payment in the range of 3.6-5.6% p.a in Ashad. This is an increment, given that the range was 2-4% in the previous month. Individuals will get interest payments in the range of 6.5-7.8 p.a. on fixed deposits, compared to Jestha's rate of 5-7%. By now, it is apparent that banks have started to raise their interest rates, an indicator that they are achieving a greater balance in liquidity scenario compared to the worst days of the pandemic. Machhapuchchhre Bank Limited will now pay 3.1-4% on savings compared to Jestha's rate range of 2-4%. Most savings schemes will yield the lower limit of the range, i.e. 3.1%. Individual fixed depositors will yield 7.51%, compared to last month's range of 7%. The industry giant Nabil Bank itself has increased its interest rate profile. Savings schemes will now yield 2.51-4.51%. This range was 1.51-3.51% for Jestha. This article performed data sampling on a randomly selected list of commercial banks. The individual interest rate updates can be found on the company profile of each commercial bank on our portal. Commercial Banks have updated the interest rates profile for the month of Ashad. The update will be effective from tomorrow, i.e. Ashad 01. The interest rates on savings have not changed for Rastriya Banijya Bank. The bank will give annual interest payments in the range of 3-5% on savings, which is also the interest rates range for Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank, with the most savings products generating interest payments in the upper limit of that range. Fixed deposits will yield 5.5-7.1% for individuals and 5-6.5% for institutions. Thus, this hasn't changed from last month either. Individual fixed depositors will yield in the range of 7-8%, just like in the previous month. In contrast, institutions will yield 7.5-8%, compared to 6.-8% in the previous month. Similarly, the normal savings account will only yield 2.5% at Standard Chartered Bank. This figure was even lower last month, i.e. at 2%. Individual fixed depositors will yield in the range of 4.5-7%, compared to last month's range of 4.5-6%. The base rate of the commercial bank as of Chaitra last year is 5.33%. NMB Bank Limited will give interest payment in the range of 3.6-5.6% p.a in Ashad. This is an increment, given that the range was 2-4% in the previous month. Individuals will get interest payments in the range of 6.5-7.8 p.a. on fixed deposits, compared to Jestha's rate of 5-7%. By now, it is apparent that banks have started to raise their interest rates, an indicator that they are achieving a greater balance in liquidity scenario compared to the worst days of the pandemic. Machhapuchchhre Bank Limited will now pay 3.1-4% on savings compared to Jestha's rate range of 2-4%. Most savings schemes will yield the lower limit of the range, i.e. 3.1%. Individual fixed depositors will yield 7.51%, compared to last month's range of 7%. The industry giant Nabil Bank itself has increased its interest rate profile. Savings schemes will now yield 2.51-4.51%. This range was 1.51-3.51% for Jestha. This article performed data sampling on a randomly selected list of commercial banks. The individual interest rate updates can be found on the company profile of each commercial bank on our portal. Commercial Banks have updated the interest rates profile for the month of Ashad. The update will be effective from tomorrow, i.e. Ashad 01. The interest rates on savings have not changed for Rastriya Banijya Bank. The bank will give annual interest payments in the range of 3-5% on savings, which is also the interest rates range for Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank, with the most savings products generating interest payments in the upper limit of that range. Fixed deposits will yield 5.5-7.1% for individuals and 5-6.5% for institutions. Thus, this hasn't changed from last month either. Individual fixed depositors will yield in the range of 7-8%, just like in the previous month. In contrast, institutions will yield 7.5-8%, compared to 6.-8% in the previous month. Similarly, the normal savings account will only yield 2.5% at Standard Chartered Bank. This figure was even lower last month, i.e. at 2%. Individual fixed depositors will yield in the range of 4.5-7%, compared to last month's range of 4.5-6%. The base rate of the commercial bank as of Chaitra last year is 5.33%. NMB Bank Limited will give interest payment in the range of 3.6-5.6% p.a in Ashad. This is an increment, given that the range was 2-4% in the previous month. Individuals will get interest payments in the range of 6.5-7.8 p.a. on fixed deposits, compared to Jestha's rate of 5-7%. By now, it is apparent that banks have started to raise their interest rates, an indicator that they are achieving a greater balance in liquidity scenario compared to the worst days of the pandemic. Machhapuchchhre Bank Limited will now pay 3.1-4% on savings compared to Jestha's rate range of 2-4%. Most savings schemes will yield the lower limit of the range, i.e. 3.1%. Individual fixed depositors will yield 7.51%, compared to last month's range of 7%. The industry giant Nabil Bank itself has increased its interest rate profile. Savings schemes will now yield 2.51-4.51%. This range was 1.51-3.51% for Jestha. This article performed data sampling on a randomly selected list of commercial banks. The individual interest rate updates can be found on the company profile of each commercial bank on our portal. "
2021-06-10,"""8% Nabil Debenture 2085"" Gets Approval From Regulatory Board SEBON",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/8-nabil-debenture-2085-gets-approval-from-regulatory-board-sebon-2021-06-10,"Nabil Bank Limited has got the regulator's approval to issue 8% Nabil Debenture 2085. SEBON provided the approval on Jestha 11 this month. 8% Nabil Debenture 2085 has a maturity period of 7 years and will mature in the year 2085. 30 lakh units will be issued at a par value of Rs. 1,000. Thus, the debenture is worth Rs. 3 Arba. While 12 lakh units will be issued to the public, 18 lakh units will be subscribed via private placement. Himalayan Capital has been appointed the issue manager for the debenture issue. Nabil Bank Limited has got the regulator's approval to issue 8% Nabil Debenture 2085. SEBON provided the approval on Jestha 11 this month. 8% Nabil Debenture 2085 has a maturity period of 7 years and will mature in the year 2085. 30 lakh units will be issued at a par value of Rs. 1,000. Thus, the debenture is worth Rs. 3 Arba. While 12 lakh units will be issued to the public, 18 lakh units will be subscribed via private placement. Himalayan Capital has been appointed the issue manager for the debenture issue. Nabil Bank Limited has got the regulator's approval to issue 8% Nabil Debenture 2085. SEBON provided the approval on Jestha 11 this month. 8% Nabil Debenture 2085 has a maturity period of 7 years and will mature in the year 2085. 30 lakh units will be issued at a par value of Rs. 1,000. Thus, the debenture is worth Rs. 3 Arba. While 12 lakh units will be issued to the public, 18 lakh units will be subscribed via private placement. Himalayan Capital has been appointed the issue manager for the debenture issue. "
2021-06-04,Nabil Bank and United Finance Call SGM to Endorse Acquisition and Share Swap Ratio,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-united-finance-call-sgm-to-endorse-acquisition-and-share-swap-ratio-2021-06-04,"Nabil Bank and United Finance have called their respective SGM on 5th Ashad, 2078. The primary agenda is to endorse the acquisition of the latter by the former. Industry giant Nabil Bank signed an acquisition agreement with United Finance Limited on Friday, Baisakh 17, in a program held in the commercial bank's office. The agreement was signed by Uday Krishna Upadhyaya, coordinator of the merger committee on behalf of Nabil Bank, and Manish Khemka, member of the merger committee on behalf of United Finance. As per the agreement, a merger and acquisition agreement has been signed to maintain the share swap ratio of 35 shares of Nabil Bank equating to 100 shares of United Finance. Their respective SGM will endorse this share swap ratio and other preliminary processes. NABIL has an LTP of Rs. 1,309 while UFL has an LTP of Rs. 423. Following the acquisition, it has been agreed that all of United Finance’s business transactions will be in the name of Nabil Bank and the Bank’s current board members will remain as the board of directors. After the acquisition, the Bank’s paid-up capital will increase to NRs. 13.85 billion. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 147 with 37 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 190. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network. Jestha 28 is the book closure date for the companies' SGM. Investors maintained before that day are eligible to attend the meetings. Trading of the finance company has been halted after the acquisition agreement. Nabil Bank's SGM notice United Finance Company's SGM notice Nabil Bank and United Finance have called their respective SGM on 5th Ashad, 2078. The primary agenda is to endorse the acquisition of the latter by the former. Industry giant Nabil Bank signed an acquisition agreement with United Finance Limited on Friday, Baisakh 17, in a program held in the commercial bank's office. The agreement was signed by Uday Krishna Upadhyaya, coordinator of the merger committee on behalf of Nabil Bank, and Manish Khemka, member of the merger committee on behalf of United Finance. As per the agreement, a merger and acquisition agreement has been signed to maintain the share swap ratio of 35 shares of Nabil Bank equating to 100 shares of United Finance. Their respective SGM will endorse this share swap ratio and other preliminary processes. NABIL has an LTP of Rs. 1,309 while UFL has an LTP of Rs. 423. Following the acquisition, it has been agreed that all of United Finance’s business transactions will be in the name of Nabil Bank and the Bank’s current board members will remain as the board of directors. After the acquisition, the Bank’s paid-up capital will increase to NRs. 13.85 billion. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 147 with 37 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 190. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network. Jestha 28 is the book closure date for the companies' SGM. Investors maintained before that day are eligible to attend the meetings. Trading of the finance company has been halted after the acquisition agreement. Nabil Bank's SGM notice United Finance Company's SGM notice Nabil Bank and United Finance have called their respective SGM on 5th Ashad, 2078. The primary agenda is to endorse the acquisition of the latter by the former. Industry giant Nabil Bank signed an acquisition agreement with United Finance Limited on Friday, Baisakh 17, in a program held in the commercial bank's office. The agreement was signed by Uday Krishna Upadhyaya, coordinator of the merger committee on behalf of Nabil Bank, and Manish Khemka, member of the merger committee on behalf of United Finance. As per the agreement, a merger and acquisition agreement has been signed to maintain the share swap ratio of 35 shares of Nabil Bank equating to 100 shares of United Finance. Their respective SGM will endorse this share swap ratio and other preliminary processes. NABIL has an LTP of Rs. 1,309 while UFL has an LTP of Rs. 423. Following the acquisition, it has been agreed that all of United Finance’s business transactions will be in the name of Nabil Bank and the Bank’s current board members will remain as the board of directors. After the acquisition, the Bank’s paid-up capital will increase to NRs. 13.85 billion. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 147 with 37 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 190. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network. Jestha 28 is the book closure date for the companies' SGM. Investors maintained before that day are eligible to attend the meetings. Trading of the finance company has been halted after the acquisition agreement. Nabil Bank's SGM notice United Finance Company's SGM notice "
2021-05-21,Nabil Bank provides assistance worth NPR 80 million towards Corona Prevention & Control; commits to install oxygen plant at Bir Hospital in its latest declaration,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-provides-assistance-worth-npr-80-million-towards-corona-prevention-control-commits-to-install-oxygen-plant-at-bir-hospital-in-its-latest-declaration-2021-05-21,"Nabil Bank and National Academy of Medical Sciences (NAMS), Bir Hospital have signed a Memorandum of Understanding on 18th May 2021 for the installation of an Oxygen Plant within Bir Hospital’s premises. Established in 1947 BS, National Academy of Medical Sciences (NAMS), Bir Hospital is the oldest hospital in Nepal that has been working towards providing quality health services to the public and producing highly skilled human resources in the field of medical science. With the onset of the pandemic, the hospital has converted its newly-built building into a 500-bed COVID-19 special hospital. As we are all aware in the second wave of COVID, the cases have grown exponentially overburdening the entire health system due to the spiraling case numbers resulting in a severe shortage of oxygen, which is a critical resource for treating COVID- 19 patients. We believe that the installation of an oxygen plant within the hospital will help to resolve this issue to some extent. The capacity of the oxygen plant is 50 Nm3/ H which will be able to fill 150 cylinders of 40 liters per day. With the installation of the oxygen plant, the hospital will be able to operate its isolation and ICU wards in the new building, which are currently not fully equipped to provide healthcare to patients. From the very beginning, the Bank has undertaken various CSR activities to help prevent and control the ongoing pandemic including a financial support worth NPR 60 million provided to Nepal Government’s Corona Relief Fund. Similarly, the Bank has recently supported the initiative on “Strengthening Local Health Systems for Preparedness and Response to Pandemics” under which 330 health practitioners from all seven provinces were provided with trainings. Now, with the intention of extending support to curb the shortage of oxygen, the Bank has stepped forward to install an oxygen plant at Bir Hospital and is further exploring to provide oxygen concentrators to different other hospitals. With that said, the Bank has provided assistance worth NPR 80 million to prevent and control Covid-19 pandemic in this fiscal year.     Nabil Bank and National Academy of Medical Sciences (NAMS), Bir Hospital have signed a Memorandum of Understanding on 18th May 2021 for the installation of an Oxygen Plant within Bir Hospital’s premises. Established in 1947 BS, National Academy of Medical Sciences (NAMS), Bir Hospital is the oldest hospital in Nepal that has been working towards providing quality health services to the public and producing highly skilled human resources in the field of medical science. With the onset of the pandemic, the hospital has converted its newly-built building into a 500-bed COVID-19 special hospital. As we are all aware in the second wave of COVID, the cases have grown exponentially overburdening the entire health system due to the spiraling case numbers resulting in a severe shortage of oxygen, which is a critical resource for treating COVID- 19 patients. We believe that the installation of an oxygen plant within the hospital will help to resolve this issue to some extent. The capacity of the oxygen plant is 50 Nm3/ H which will be able to fill 150 cylinders of 40 liters per day. With the installation of the oxygen plant, the hospital will be able to operate its isolation and ICU wards in the new building, which are currently not fully equipped to provide healthcare to patients. From the very beginning, the Bank has undertaken various CSR activities to help prevent and control the ongoing pandemic including a financial support worth NPR 60 million provided to Nepal Government’s Corona Relief Fund. Similarly, the Bank has recently supported the initiative on “Strengthening Local Health Systems for Preparedness and Response to Pandemics” under which 330 health practitioners from all seven provinces were provided with trainings. Now, with the intention of extending support to curb the shortage of oxygen, the Bank has stepped forward to install an oxygen plant at Bir Hospital and is further exploring to provide oxygen concentrators to different other hospitals. With that said, the Bank has provided assistance worth NPR 80 million to prevent and control Covid-19 pandemic in this fiscal year.     Nabil Bank and National Academy of Medical Sciences (NAMS), Bir Hospital have signed a Memorandum of Understanding on 18th May 2021 for the installation of an Oxygen Plant within Bir Hospital’s premises. Established in 1947 BS, National Academy of Medical Sciences (NAMS), Bir Hospital is the oldest hospital in Nepal that has been working towards providing quality health services to the public and producing highly skilled human resources in the field of medical science. With the onset of the pandemic, the hospital has converted its newly-built building into a 500-bed COVID-19 special hospital. As we are all aware in the second wave of COVID, the cases have grown exponentially overburdening the entire health system due to the spiraling case numbers resulting in a severe shortage of oxygen, which is a critical resource for treating COVID- 19 patients. We believe that the installation of an oxygen plant within the hospital will help to resolve this issue to some extent. The capacity of the oxygen plant is 50 Nm3/ H which will be able to fill 150 cylinders of 40 liters per day. With the installation of the oxygen plant, the hospital will be able to operate its isolation and ICU wards in the new building, which are currently not fully equipped to provide healthcare to patients. From the very beginning, the Bank has undertaken various CSR activities to help prevent and control the ongoing pandemic including a financial support worth NPR 60 million provided to Nepal Government’s Corona Relief Fund. Similarly, the Bank has recently supported the initiative on “Strengthening Local Health Systems for Preparedness and Response to Pandemics” under which 330 health practitioners from all seven provinces were provided with trainings. Now, with the intention of extending support to curb the shortage of oxygen, the Bank has stepped forward to install an oxygen plant at Bir Hospital and is further exploring to provide oxygen concentrators to different other hospitals. With that said, the Bank has provided assistance worth NPR 80 million to prevent and control Covid-19 pandemic in this fiscal year.     "
2021-05-20,Nabil Bank to fund construction of oxygen plant at Bir Hospital; makes Rs 8 crore worth contribution to fight against COVID pandemic so far,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-fund-construction-of-oxygen-plant-at-bir-hospital-makes-rs-8-crore-worth-contribution-to-fight-against-covid-pandemic-so-far-2021-05-20,"Nabil Bank has extended its helping hands for the construction of an oxygen plant at Bir Hospital for which the bank has decided to bear all the installation cost.  The agreement to begin the support process was signed between the hospital and the bank under which a plant that can produce 50 cubic liter oxygen each hour will be installed at the hospital, as per the media statement. The bank has so far provided financial support of Rs 8 crore to different government and non-government initiations to fight the COVID pandemic, as stated in the statement. Nabil Bank has extended its helping hands for the construction of an oxygen plant at Bir Hospital for which the bank has decided to bear all the installation cost.  The agreement to begin the support process was signed between the hospital and the bank under which a plant that can produce 50 cubic liter oxygen each hour will be installed at the hospital, as per the media statement. The bank has so far provided financial support of Rs 8 crore to different government and non-government initiations to fight the COVID pandemic, as stated in the statement. Nabil Bank has extended its helping hands for the construction of an oxygen plant at Bir Hospital for which the bank has decided to bear all the installation cost.  The agreement to begin the support process was signed between the hospital and the bank under which a plant that can produce 50 cubic liter oxygen each hour will be installed at the hospital, as per the media statement. The bank has so far provided financial support of Rs 8 crore to different government and non-government initiations to fight the COVID pandemic, as stated in the statement. "
2021-05-17,Nabil Bank launches online Nabil iCard application through Bank’s website; aims for more improved service delivery during ongoing COVID crises,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-online-nabil-icard-application-through-banks-website-aims-for-more-improved-service-delivery-during-ongoing-covid-crises-2021-05-17,"Nabil Bank has launched a new feature in the bank’s website through which customers of the bank can easily apply for Nabil iCard online. With this latest addition, any customer having an active account with Nabil Bank and a valid PAN can visit the ‘Nabil iCard’ section on the bank’s website (https://nabilbank.com/en/personal/card-e-banking/products/nabil-icard) and simply click on the ‘APPLY NOW!’ option to apply for Nabil iCard. FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) regarding this card are also available in the same section of the website which customers can easily refer to for detailed information on Nabil iCard. For further information, customers can also contact the bank’s customer care center at 01-5970015 or write to customercare@nabilbank.com. Subsequent to the online application, customers can collect the card at their nearest branch as per their own convenience. Nabil bank has launched this new feature in the bank’s website to ensure customers’ safety and convenience during the ongoing global Covid-19 pandemic. With the addition of this new feature, the bank intends to and is prepared for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank has launched a new feature in the bank’s website through which customers of the bank can easily apply for Nabil iCard online. With this latest addition, any customer having an active account with Nabil Bank and a valid PAN can visit the ‘Nabil iCard’ section on the bank’s website (https://nabilbank.com/en/personal/card-e-banking/products/nabil-icard) and simply click on the ‘APPLY NOW!’ option to apply for Nabil iCard. FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) regarding this card are also available in the same section of the website which customers can easily refer to for detailed information on Nabil iCard. For further information, customers can also contact the bank’s customer care center at 01-5970015 or write to customercare@nabilbank.com. Subsequent to the online application, customers can collect the card at their nearest branch as per their own convenience. Nabil bank has launched this new feature in the bank’s website to ensure customers’ safety and convenience during the ongoing global Covid-19 pandemic. With the addition of this new feature, the bank intends to and is prepared for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank has launched a new feature in the bank’s website through which customers of the bank can easily apply for Nabil iCard online. With this latest addition, any customer having an active account with Nabil Bank and a valid PAN can visit the ‘Nabil iCard’ section on the bank’s website (https://nabilbank.com/en/personal/card-e-banking/products/nabil-icard) and simply click on the ‘APPLY NOW!’ option to apply for Nabil iCard. FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) regarding this card are also available in the same section of the website which customers can easily refer to for detailed information on Nabil iCard. For further information, customers can also contact the bank’s customer care center at 01-5970015 or write to customercare@nabilbank.com. Subsequent to the online application, customers can collect the card at their nearest branch as per their own convenience. Nabil bank has launched this new feature in the bank’s website to ensure customers’ safety and convenience during the ongoing global Covid-19 pandemic. With the addition of this new feature, the bank intends to and is prepared for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. "
2021-05-14,Commercial Banks Update Interest Rates; Will Liquidty Scenario in Second Wave be Worse than During the First?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-update-interest-rates-will-liquidty-scenario-in-second-wave-be-worse-than-during-the-first-2021-05-14,"Commercial banks have updated the interest rates for the month of Jestha. Bank of Kathmandu Limited (BOKL), for example, now gives interest payments in the range of 2.5% to 4% on savings. This shows that the interest rate has fallen compared to the month of Baisakh when the bank gave in the range of 3.1% to 4.6%. The interest rate on fixed deposits has gone down as well. Individuals previously got in the range of 7% to 7.6% on fixed deposits while institutions got in the range of 5.5% to 7.5%. Now, the rates have fallen to 6.5% - 7% for individuals and 5% - 7% for institutions. Interest payment commitment has fallen for Prime Commercial Bank too. The previous rate range on savings was 3.51% - 4.5%. Now, the range is 2.76% - 4.5%. The highest interest payment that individuals will get on fixed deposits is 7.76%, compared to last month's highest rate of 8.5%. While institutions got in the range of 7.5% - 8.51%, they will now only get 7.5% - 7.76%. In contrast, Mega Bank has gone to increase the interest rates instead. The bank previously made interest payments in the range of 1.75% to 3.5% for savings. For the month of Jestha, the bank has hiked the rate to 2.25% - 6.5%. While individuals and institutions got a flat 6.75% interest payment on all fixed deposits, they will now get 7.25%. Because of the disparity in the updates, it is quite challenging to ascertain the liquidity situation of the economy and the health of the banking sector. For instance, Nabil bank has not made any changes to its interest rate profile for the month of Jestha. The bank will still provide interest payments in the range of 1.51% - 3.51% for savings schemes, 5.01% - 6.51% for individual FDs, and 4% - 6.5% for institutional FDs. Nonetheless, the base rate as of Chaitra, i.e. 6.18% is higher than the base rate as of Falgun, i.e. 5.49%. Nepal SBI Bank Limited will now give 2.55% interest payment on most of its deposit schemes and 3.16% on the bank's special deposit schemes while it previously gave in the range of 3% to 3.16%. The bank also has a higher base rate as of Chaitra compared to that of Falgun. However, Prabhu Bank Limited's base rate as of Chaitra, i.e. 7.06% is actually lower than the rate maintained as of Poush, i.e. 7.24%. The bank now gives a flat 7% annual interest payment on all FDs. Previously, individuals got in the range of 5.5% - 7% on FDs and institutions got in the range of 5% - 7%. In this article, sampling a few commercial banks from all those that updated their interest rates shows that there is a disparity in the interest rates update. As such, one can also ascertain that banks, like all others who watch the economy, may have varied opinions on the future of the economy and liquidity scenario.  The excess liquidity that the economy had to deal with in the past year as a result of the lockdown during the first wave. Fast forward to today, the country is on the second series of lockdown and prohibitory orders because of the second wave of the pandemic. The government has extended the lockdown since the second wave seems deadlier and bigger than the first. As such, the halt in economic activities does have the potential to ensue yet another scenario of piling liquidity on a whole another level.  Commercial banks have updated the interest rates for the month of Jestha. Bank of Kathmandu Limited (BOKL), for example, now gives interest payments in the range of 2.5% to 4% on savings. This shows that the interest rate has fallen compared to the month of Baisakh when the bank gave in the range of 3.1% to 4.6%. The interest rate on fixed deposits has gone down as well. Individuals previously got in the range of 7% to 7.6% on fixed deposits while institutions got in the range of 5.5% to 7.5%. Now, the rates have fallen to 6.5% - 7% for individuals and 5% - 7% for institutions. Interest payment commitment has fallen for Prime Commercial Bank too. The previous rate range on savings was 3.51% - 4.5%. Now, the range is 2.76% - 4.5%. The highest interest payment that individuals will get on fixed deposits is 7.76%, compared to last month's highest rate of 8.5%. While institutions got in the range of 7.5% - 8.51%, they will now only get 7.5% - 7.76%. In contrast, Mega Bank has gone to increase the interest rates instead. The bank previously made interest payments in the range of 1.75% to 3.5% for savings. For the month of Jestha, the bank has hiked the rate to 2.25% - 6.5%. While individuals and institutions got a flat 6.75% interest payment on all fixed deposits, they will now get 7.25%. Because of the disparity in the updates, it is quite challenging to ascertain the liquidity situation of the economy and the health of the banking sector. For instance, Nabil bank has not made any changes to its interest rate profile for the month of Jestha. The bank will still provide interest payments in the range of 1.51% - 3.51% for savings schemes, 5.01% - 6.51% for individual FDs, and 4% - 6.5% for institutional FDs. Nonetheless, the base rate as of Chaitra, i.e. 6.18% is higher than the base rate as of Falgun, i.e. 5.49%. Nepal SBI Bank Limited will now give 2.55% interest payment on most of its deposit schemes and 3.16% on the bank's special deposit schemes while it previously gave in the range of 3% to 3.16%. The bank also has a higher base rate as of Chaitra compared to that of Falgun. However, Prabhu Bank Limited's base rate as of Chaitra, i.e. 7.06% is actually lower than the rate maintained as of Poush, i.e. 7.24%. The bank now gives a flat 7% annual interest payment on all FDs. Previously, individuals got in the range of 5.5% - 7% on FDs and institutions got in the range of 5% - 7%. In this article, sampling a few commercial banks from all those that updated their interest rates shows that there is a disparity in the interest rates update. As such, one can also ascertain that banks, like all others who watch the economy, may have varied opinions on the future of the economy and liquidity scenario.  The excess liquidity that the economy had to deal with in the past year as a result of the lockdown during the first wave. Fast forward to today, the country is on the second series of lockdown and prohibitory orders because of the second wave of the pandemic. The government has extended the lockdown since the second wave seems deadlier and bigger than the first. As such, the halt in economic activities does have the potential to ensue yet another scenario of piling liquidity on a whole another level.  Commercial banks have updated the interest rates for the month of Jestha. Bank of Kathmandu Limited (BOKL), for example, now gives interest payments in the range of 2.5% to 4% on savings. This shows that the interest rate has fallen compared to the month of Baisakh when the bank gave in the range of 3.1% to 4.6%. The interest rate on fixed deposits has gone down as well. Individuals previously got in the range of 7% to 7.6% on fixed deposits while institutions got in the range of 5.5% to 7.5%. Now, the rates have fallen to 6.5% - 7% for individuals and 5% - 7% for institutions. Interest payment commitment has fallen for Prime Commercial Bank too. The previous rate range on savings was 3.51% - 4.5%. Now, the range is 2.76% - 4.5%. The highest interest payment that individuals will get on fixed deposits is 7.76%, compared to last month's highest rate of 8.5%. While institutions got in the range of 7.5% - 8.51%, they will now only get 7.5% - 7.76%. In contrast, Mega Bank has gone to increase the interest rates instead. The bank previously made interest payments in the range of 1.75% to 3.5% for savings. For the month of Jestha, the bank has hiked the rate to 2.25% - 6.5%. While individuals and institutions got a flat 6.75% interest payment on all fixed deposits, they will now get 7.25%. Because of the disparity in the updates, it is quite challenging to ascertain the liquidity situation of the economy and the health of the banking sector. For instance, Nabil bank has not made any changes to its interest rate profile for the month of Jestha. The bank will still provide interest payments in the range of 1.51% - 3.51% for savings schemes, 5.01% - 6.51% for individual FDs, and 4% - 6.5% for institutional FDs. Nonetheless, the base rate as of Chaitra, i.e. 6.18% is higher than the base rate as of Falgun, i.e. 5.49%. Nepal SBI Bank Limited will now give 2.55% interest payment on most of its deposit schemes and 3.16% on the bank's special deposit schemes while it previously gave in the range of 3% to 3.16%. The bank also has a higher base rate as of Chaitra compared to that of Falgun. However, Prabhu Bank Limited's base rate as of Chaitra, i.e. 7.06% is actually lower than the rate maintained as of Poush, i.e. 7.24%. The bank now gives a flat 7% annual interest payment on all FDs. Previously, individuals got in the range of 5.5% - 7% on FDs and institutions got in the range of 5% - 7%. In this article, sampling a few commercial banks from all those that updated their interest rates shows that there is a disparity in the interest rates update. As such, one can also ascertain that banks, like all others who watch the economy, may have varied opinions on the future of the economy and liquidity scenario.  The excess liquidity that the economy had to deal with in the past year as a result of the lockdown during the first wave. Fast forward to today, the country is on the second series of lockdown and prohibitory orders because of the second wave of the pandemic. The government has extended the lockdown since the second wave seems deadlier and bigger than the first. As such, the halt in economic activities does have the potential to ensue yet another scenario of piling liquidity on a whole another level.  "
2021-05-02,Commercial Banks Performed Better than Expected This Third Quarter; A Summarized Snapshot of the Most Important Fundamentals,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-bank-q3-comparative-not-completed-please-do-not-post-yet-2021-04-29,"Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the low-interest-rate environment and bad loans that might occur, banks have reported improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter. In this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks and do a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. As per the net profit of the third quarter of FY 2077/78, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 3.67 Arba. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 3.57 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has a net profit of Rs 3.27 Arba. The bank with the least net profit is Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 35 crores. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.87 Arba. All commercial banks except 21 have reduced net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last year.   The total net profit for the year is Rs 50.59 Arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 44.57 Arba. The overall industry net profit has increased by 13.50%. Distributable profit: As per the distributable profit of the third quarter of 2077/78, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)   is in the lead with a profit of Rs 3.80 Arba. Similarly,  Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 3.04 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a net profit of Rs. 2.56  Arba. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has reported the lowest distributable profit among all the banks of Rs. 22.29 crores.  Impairment charge/(reversal) for a loan and other losses: Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 1.21 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 75.88 crores followed by Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) with a total of Rs. 41.19 crores.  Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 21.63 Arba capital and Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with Rs 16.42 Arba paid-up capital.   * ADBL capital includes 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares With an industry average of Rs 8.18 Arba, 9 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 8.18 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.20 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 21.51 Arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 17.62 Arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 17.52 Arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.41 kharba as a deposit. Only 11 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the third quarter of FY 2077/78, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.75 kharba, Global IME Bank (GBIME) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.44 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Rastirya Banikya Bank Limited (RBBL) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.40 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 73.29 Arba.  The top position in loans and advances is occupied by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.47 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.22 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 1.86 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 61.95 Arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.26 Kharba. 13 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.22 Kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans to support the government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting an application for a loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies, and public transportation by rescheduling their loan payment. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 6.87 Arba followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 6.58 Arba and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB)  with an income of Rs 6.34 Arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 3.55 Arba. 13 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest comprehensive income of Rs 5.46 Arba.  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 4.59 Arba. Siddhartha Bank Limited  (SBL) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 4.26 Arba.  Major indicators: Rastra Banijaya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 47.47 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 36.40 per share. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 34.65 per share. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 5.29 per share.  The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 21.12. 13 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 291.95 which belongs to Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB). Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the second position with Rs 270.22. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q3 of FY 2077/78 i.e. Rs 235.11. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 117.81 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 171.62 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) has the least PE ratio of 15.37 times. It is followed by Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) with a PE ratio of 16.16 times. 18 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 23.99 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported the lowest NPL of 0.12% in terms of asset quality. EBL is followed by Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) with an NPL of 0.21%.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has reported the highest NPL of 3.62%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have the highest NPL of 3.08%.   In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 21.10%. This is followed by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with a CAR of 17.86%.  When we look at the indicators of banks, the overall picture doesn't seem so bad after the pandemic. Since the central bank applied the expansionary monetary policy to limit the effect of a pandemic on the whole economy, banks had to provide loans at a cheaper rate which could be one of the reasons for lower interest income. However, the banks have disbursed a huge amount of loans, indicating that the investments in the economy are increasing. Since the allocation of provision has also been declining significantly, it might be quite safe to say that the banks have been able to disburse good loans. Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the third quarter of FY 2077/78:  Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the low-interest-rate environment and bad loans that might occur, banks have reported improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter. In this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks and do a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. As per the net profit of the third quarter of FY 2077/78, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 3.67 Arba. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 3.57 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has a net profit of Rs 3.27 Arba. The bank with the least net profit is Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 35 crores. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.87 Arba. All commercial banks except 21 have reduced net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last year.   The total net profit for the year is Rs 50.59 Arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 44.57 Arba. The overall industry net profit has increased by 13.50%. Distributable profit: As per the distributable profit of the third quarter of 2077/78, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)   is in the lead with a profit of Rs 3.80 Arba. Similarly,  Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 3.04 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a net profit of Rs. 2.56  Arba. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has reported the lowest distributable profit among all the banks of Rs. 22.29 crores.  Impairment charge/(reversal) for a loan and other losses: Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 1.21 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 75.88 crores followed by Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) with a total of Rs. 41.19 crores.  Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 21.63 Arba capital and Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with Rs 16.42 Arba paid-up capital.   * ADBL capital includes 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares With an industry average of Rs 8.18 Arba, 9 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 8.18 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.20 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 21.51 Arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 17.62 Arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 17.52 Arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.41 kharba as a deposit. Only 11 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the third quarter of FY 2077/78, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.75 kharba, Global IME Bank (GBIME) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.44 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Rastirya Banikya Bank Limited (RBBL) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.40 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 73.29 Arba.  The top position in loans and advances is occupied by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.47 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.22 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 1.86 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 61.95 Arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.26 Kharba. 13 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.22 Kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans to support the government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting an application for a loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies, and public transportation by rescheduling their loan payment. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 6.87 Arba followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 6.58 Arba and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB)  with an income of Rs 6.34 Arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 3.55 Arba. 13 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest comprehensive income of Rs 5.46 Arba.  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 4.59 Arba. Siddhartha Bank Limited  (SBL) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 4.26 Arba.  Major indicators: Rastra Banijaya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 47.47 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 36.40 per share. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 34.65 per share. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 5.29 per share.  The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 21.12. 13 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 291.95 which belongs to Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB). Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the second position with Rs 270.22. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q3 of FY 2077/78 i.e. Rs 235.11. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 117.81 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 171.62 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) has the least PE ratio of 15.37 times. It is followed by Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) with a PE ratio of 16.16 times. 18 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 23.99 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported the lowest NPL of 0.12% in terms of asset quality. EBL is followed by Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) with an NPL of 0.21%.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has reported the highest NPL of 3.62%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have the highest NPL of 3.08%.   In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 21.10%. This is followed by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with a CAR of 17.86%.  When we look at the indicators of banks, the overall picture doesn't seem so bad after the pandemic. Since the central bank applied the expansionary monetary policy to limit the effect of a pandemic on the whole economy, banks had to provide loans at a cheaper rate which could be one of the reasons for lower interest income. However, the banks have disbursed a huge amount of loans, indicating that the investments in the economy are increasing. Since the allocation of provision has also been declining significantly, it might be quite safe to say that the banks have been able to disburse good loans. Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the third quarter of FY 2077/78:  Despite many speculations in the market as to how the bank's profitability will play out in the quarters to come because of the low-interest-rate environment and bad loans that might occur, banks have reported improved profitability indicators yet in this quarter. In this article, we will be focusing mainly on the profitability and business volume indicators of commercial banks and do a comparative analysis. So, let's dive into the numbers. As per the net profit of the third quarter of FY 2077/78, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 3.67 Arba. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 3.57 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBBL) has a net profit of Rs 3.27 Arba. The bank with the least net profit is Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 35 crores. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.87 Arba. All commercial banks except 21 have reduced net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last year.   The total net profit for the year is Rs 50.59 Arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 44.57 Arba. The overall industry net profit has increased by 13.50%. Distributable profit: As per the distributable profit of the third quarter of 2077/78, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)   is in the lead with a profit of Rs 3.80 Arba. Similarly,  Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 3.04 Arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a net profit of Rs. 2.56  Arba. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has reported the lowest distributable profit among all the banks of Rs. 22.29 crores.  Impairment charge/(reversal) for a loan and other losses: Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed the loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 1.21 Arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 75.88 crores followed by Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) with a total of Rs. 41.19 crores.  Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 21.63 Arba capital and Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with Rs 16.42 Arba paid-up capital.   * ADBL capital includes 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares With an industry average of Rs 8.18 Arba, 9 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 8.18 Arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks are at Rs 2.20 Kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 21.51 Arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 17.62 Arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 17.52 Arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.41 kharba as a deposit. Only 11 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the third quarter of FY 2077/78, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.75 kharba, Global IME Bank (GBIME) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.44 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Rastirya Banikya Bank Limited (RBBL) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.40 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 73.29 Arba.  The top position in loans and advances is occupied by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.47 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.22 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 1.86 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 61.95 Arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.26 Kharba. 13 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.22 Kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans to support the government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting an application for a loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies, and public transportation by rescheduling their loan payment. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 6.87 Arba followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 6.58 Arba and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB)  with an income of Rs 6.34 Arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 3.55 Arba. 13 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest comprehensive income of Rs 5.46 Arba.  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 4.59 Arba. Siddhartha Bank Limited  (SBL) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 4.26 Arba.  Major indicators: Rastra Banijaya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 47.47 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 36.40 per share. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 34.65 per share. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 5.29 per share.  The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 21.12. 13 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 291.95 which belongs to Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB). Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the second position with Rs 270.22. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q3 of FY 2077/78 i.e. Rs 235.11. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 117.81 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 171.62 per share. 10 companies have a net worth more than the industry average. Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) has the least PE ratio of 15.37 times. It is followed by Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) with a PE ratio of 16.16 times. 18 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 23.99 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) reported the lowest NPL of 0.12% in terms of asset quality. EBL is followed by Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) with an NPL of 0.21%.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has reported the highest NPL of 3.62%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have the highest NPL of 3.08%.   In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 21.10%. This is followed by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with a CAR of 17.86%.  When we look at the indicators of banks, the overall picture doesn't seem so bad after the pandemic. Since the central bank applied the expansionary monetary policy to limit the effect of a pandemic on the whole economy, banks had to provide loans at a cheaper rate which could be one of the reasons for lower interest income. However, the banks have disbursed a huge amount of loans, indicating that the investments in the economy are increasing. Since the allocation of provision has also been declining significantly, it might be quite safe to say that the banks have been able to disburse good loans. Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the third quarter of FY 2077/78:  "
2021-04-30,Industry Giant Nabil Bank to Acquire United Finance Limited; What is the Share Swap Ratio?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/industry-giant-nabil-bank-to-acquire-united-finance-limited-what-is-the-share-swap-ratio-2021-04-30,"Industry giant Nabil Bank has signed an acquisition agreement with United Finance Limited. The companies have signed the acquisition agreement today, i.e. Friday, Baisakh 17, in a program held in the commercial bank's office. The agreement has been signed by Uday Krishna Upadhyaya, coordinator of the merger committee on behalf of Nabil Bank, and Manish Khemka, member of the merger committee on behalf of United Finance.  As per the agreement, a merger and acquisition agreement has been signed to maintain the share swap ratio of 35 shares of Nabil Bank equating to 100 shares of United Finance. NABIL has an LTP of Rs. 1,270 while UFL has an LTP of Rs. 423. Following the acquisition, it has been agreed that all of United Finance’s business transactions will be in the name of Nabil Bank and the Bank’s current board members will remain as the board of directors. After the acquisition, the Bank’s paid-up capital will increase to NRs. 13.85 billion. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 147 with 37 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 190. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network. Industry giant Nabil Bank has signed an acquisition agreement with United Finance Limited. The companies have signed the acquisition agreement today, i.e. Friday, Baisakh 17, in a program held in the commercial bank's office. The agreement has been signed by Uday Krishna Upadhyaya, coordinator of the merger committee on behalf of Nabil Bank, and Manish Khemka, member of the merger committee on behalf of United Finance.  As per the agreement, a merger and acquisition agreement has been signed to maintain the share swap ratio of 35 shares of Nabil Bank equating to 100 shares of United Finance. NABIL has an LTP of Rs. 1,270 while UFL has an LTP of Rs. 423. Following the acquisition, it has been agreed that all of United Finance’s business transactions will be in the name of Nabil Bank and the Bank’s current board members will remain as the board of directors. After the acquisition, the Bank’s paid-up capital will increase to NRs. 13.85 billion. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 147 with 37 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 190. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network. Industry giant Nabil Bank has signed an acquisition agreement with United Finance Limited. The companies have signed the acquisition agreement today, i.e. Friday, Baisakh 17, in a program held in the commercial bank's office. The agreement has been signed by Uday Krishna Upadhyaya, coordinator of the merger committee on behalf of Nabil Bank, and Manish Khemka, member of the merger committee on behalf of United Finance.  As per the agreement, a merger and acquisition agreement has been signed to maintain the share swap ratio of 35 shares of Nabil Bank equating to 100 shares of United Finance. NABIL has an LTP of Rs. 1,270 while UFL has an LTP of Rs. 423. Following the acquisition, it has been agreed that all of United Finance’s business transactions will be in the name of Nabil Bank and the Bank’s current board members will remain as the board of directors. After the acquisition, the Bank’s paid-up capital will increase to NRs. 13.85 billion. Likewise, the Bank’s branch network will increase to 147 with 37 branches located within Kathmandu valley and the total number of ATMs will be 190. As a result of the acquisition, Nabil Bank’s deposit portfolio will increase to NRs. 216 billion and loan portfolio will increase to NRs. 201 billion (as per 3rd quarter’s financial result). With this acquisition, Nabil Bank will enter the market with a new strategy through its innovative services and additional branch network. "
2021-04-28,"In This Q3, Commercial Banks Bagged over Rs. 50.74 Arba in Total Net Profit; Distributable Profit Surged by Massive 195.1% on Average",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-bank-profit-2021-04-28,"All commercial banks have unveiled their quarterly reports for the third quarter (Q3) of the fiscal year 2077/78. There are a total of 27 commercial banks in the country. Of the 27 commercial banks, 26 are listed on the stock exchange while Rastriya Banijya Bank is not. Commercial banks went through a lot in the past few months. The banks had to tackle piling liquidity during and in the aftermath of the pandemic, a result of increasing deposits and decreasing lending. In order to minimize profit margin cuts via interest payment, commercial banks have been slashing interest rates ever since.  Despite all odds, commercial banks have published fairly satisfactory quarterly reports. The combined performance by the commercial banks is applaudable, with the 27 banks reporting an average 11% increase in net profit in the third quarter of this fiscal year compared to the third quarter of the previous fiscal year. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) witnessed the highest spike in net profit in this quarter compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year. The net profit of the bank stands at Rs. 1.8 arba which is 78.6% higher than the figure reported in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2076/77. Meanwhile, the industry giant Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has reported the highest monetary amount of net profit this quarter. The net profit of the bank stands at Rs. 3.67 arba which is a 16.5% rise from its own net profit for the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year. However, things weren't all bright and sunny for all commercial banks. Five commercial banks have reported a fall in net profit when compared with the figure reported in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year. From this viewpoint, Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has reported the highest fall of 60.9%. Nonetheless, the commercial banks have rung the closing bell for the third quarter this year with a combined net profit of Rs. 50.74 arba.  Commercial banks have a combined worth of Rs. 35.43 arba in distributable profits by the end of the third quarter. Many commercial banks had reported a negative distributable profit in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year. In contrast, all banks have reported positive figures this time. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has reported the highest spike in its distributable profit figure. With a distributable profit of Rs. Rs. 98.32 crore at the end of this year's third quarter, the bank has seen a massive 3,409.7% surge in its distributable profit figure. Summing up, the commercial banks have performed fairly well, with an impressive average rise of 195.1% in distributable profits compared to the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year.   All commercial banks have unveiled their quarterly reports for the third quarter (Q3) of the fiscal year 2077/78. There are a total of 27 commercial banks in the country. Of the 27 commercial banks, 26 are listed on the stock exchange while Rastriya Banijya Bank is not. Commercial banks went through a lot in the past few months. The banks had to tackle piling liquidity during and in the aftermath of the pandemic, a result of increasing deposits and decreasing lending. In order to minimize profit margin cuts via interest payment, commercial banks have been slashing interest rates ever since.  Despite all odds, commercial banks have published fairly satisfactory quarterly reports. The combined performance by the commercial banks is applaudable, with the 27 banks reporting an average 11% increase in net profit in the third quarter of this fiscal year compared to the third quarter of the previous fiscal year. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) witnessed the highest spike in net profit in this quarter compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year. The net profit of the bank stands at Rs. 1.8 arba which is 78.6% higher than the figure reported in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2076/77. Meanwhile, the industry giant Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has reported the highest monetary amount of net profit this quarter. The net profit of the bank stands at Rs. 3.67 arba which is a 16.5% rise from its own net profit for the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year. However, things weren't all bright and sunny for all commercial banks. Five commercial banks have reported a fall in net profit when compared with the figure reported in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year. From this viewpoint, Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has reported the highest fall of 60.9%. Nonetheless, the commercial banks have rung the closing bell for the third quarter this year with a combined net profit of Rs. 50.74 arba.  Commercial banks have a combined worth of Rs. 35.43 arba in distributable profits by the end of the third quarter. Many commercial banks had reported a negative distributable profit in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year. In contrast, all banks have reported positive figures this time. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has reported the highest spike in its distributable profit figure. With a distributable profit of Rs. Rs. 98.32 crore at the end of this year's third quarter, the bank has seen a massive 3,409.7% surge in its distributable profit figure. Summing up, the commercial banks have performed fairly well, with an impressive average rise of 195.1% in distributable profits compared to the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year.   All commercial banks have unveiled their quarterly reports for the third quarter (Q3) of the fiscal year 2077/78. There are a total of 27 commercial banks in the country. Of the 27 commercial banks, 26 are listed on the stock exchange while Rastriya Banijya Bank is not. Commercial banks went through a lot in the past few months. The banks had to tackle piling liquidity during and in the aftermath of the pandemic, a result of increasing deposits and decreasing lending. In order to minimize profit margin cuts via interest payment, commercial banks have been slashing interest rates ever since.  Despite all odds, commercial banks have published fairly satisfactory quarterly reports. The combined performance by the commercial banks is applaudable, with the 27 banks reporting an average 11% increase in net profit in the third quarter of this fiscal year compared to the third quarter of the previous fiscal year. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) witnessed the highest spike in net profit in this quarter compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year. The net profit of the bank stands at Rs. 1.8 arba which is 78.6% higher than the figure reported in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2076/77. Meanwhile, the industry giant Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has reported the highest monetary amount of net profit this quarter. The net profit of the bank stands at Rs. 3.67 arba which is a 16.5% rise from its own net profit for the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year. However, things weren't all bright and sunny for all commercial banks. Five commercial banks have reported a fall in net profit when compared with the figure reported in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year. From this viewpoint, Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has reported the highest fall of 60.9%. Nonetheless, the commercial banks have rung the closing bell for the third quarter this year with a combined net profit of Rs. 50.74 arba.  Commercial banks have a combined worth of Rs. 35.43 arba in distributable profits by the end of the third quarter. Many commercial banks had reported a negative distributable profit in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year. In contrast, all banks have reported positive figures this time. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has reported the highest spike in its distributable profit figure. With a distributable profit of Rs. Rs. 98.32 crore at the end of this year's third quarter, the bank has seen a massive 3,409.7% surge in its distributable profit figure. Summing up, the commercial banks have performed fairly well, with an impressive average rise of 195.1% in distributable profits compared to the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year.   "
2021-04-28,Nabil Bank's earn massive Rs 3.67 arba till Q3 with 16.50% growth; Look at the major highlight,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-reports-slight-decline-in-core-business-revenue-in-q3-look-at-the-major-highlights-2021-04-28,Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its third-quarter report for the FY 2077/2078 with an increment in Net Profit by 16.50%. The bank's net profit has increased from Rs. 3.15 Arba in the third quarter of FY 2076/2077 to Rs. 3.67 Arba in the second quarter of FY 2077/2078. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 9.19% to Rs. 2.08 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 25.76% to Rs. 1.86 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the third quarter. The bank's Net Interest Income (core business income) has decreased by 5.09% to Rs. 5.09 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 13.48 Arba with Rs. 17.52 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 0.48%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 36.40 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 230.02. The company traded at a P/B multiple of 6.00 times. Click here for the Q3 report Major Highlights:   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its third-quarter report for the FY 2077/2078 with an increment in Net Profit by 16.50%. The bank's net profit has increased from Rs. 3.15 Arba in the third quarter of FY 2076/2077 to Rs. 3.67 Arba in the second quarter of FY 2077/2078. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 9.19% to Rs. 2.08 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 25.76% to Rs. 1.86 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the third quarter. The bank's Net Interest Income (core business income) has decreased by 5.09% to Rs. 5.09 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 13.48 Arba with Rs. 17.52 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 0.48%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 36.40 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 230.02. The company traded at a P/B multiple of 6.00 times. Click here for the Q3 report Major Highlights:   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its third-quarter report for the FY 2077/2078 with an increment in Net Profit by 16.50%. The bank's net profit has increased from Rs. 3.15 Arba in the third quarter of FY 2076/2077 to Rs. 3.67 Arba in the second quarter of FY 2077/2078. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 9.19% to Rs. 2.08 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 25.76% to Rs. 1.86 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the third quarter. The bank's Net Interest Income (core business income) has decreased by 5.09% to Rs. 5.09 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 13.48 Arba with Rs. 17.52 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 0.48%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 36.40 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 230.02. The company traded at a P/B multiple of 6.00 times. Click here for the Q3 report Major Highlights:   
2021-04-16,Nabil Bank Launches Card Integration in Nabil SmartBank App; customers can now get a range of card-related information in their MoBanking app,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-card-integration-in-nabil-smartbank-app-customers-can-now-get-a-range-of-card-related-information-in-their-mobanking-app-2021-04-16,"Nabil Bank has announced the launch of Card Integration in Nabil SmartBank App. Card Integration is a feature that integrates the card system with Nabil SmartBank App (mobile banking app) allowing cardholders to avail card information at the touch of the screen. This feature enables cardholders to view basic card information like card statement, transaction history, card dues, balance status as well as perform actions like activation & deactivation of cards. This feature is available for all cards (Debit, Credit & Prepaid Cards) issued by Nabil Bank.    Customers will be provided with two options to register in Nabil SmartBank App; First “sign up through account” and Second “sign up through card”. Non-account cardholders can also register in Nabil SmartBank App via “sign up through card” option. Existing Nabil SmartBank users can avail of this feature after updating the app. As we have embarked on a journey for digitization, we are continuously finding ways to provide a rich customer experience. This module will not only enhance customer experience but will also provide convenience to our customers who are looking for a digital platform to inquire about basic card information without having to visit the bank. This feature is also expected to minimize physical contact thus ensuring the health and safety of our valued customers.  Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has 119 branches and 185 ATM networks all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  The Bank is continuously exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs and aims to be the first digital bank in the country.   Nabil Bank has announced the launch of Card Integration in Nabil SmartBank App. Card Integration is a feature that integrates the card system with Nabil SmartBank App (mobile banking app) allowing cardholders to avail card information at the touch of the screen. This feature enables cardholders to view basic card information like card statement, transaction history, card dues, balance status as well as perform actions like activation & deactivation of cards. This feature is available for all cards (Debit, Credit & Prepaid Cards) issued by Nabil Bank.    Customers will be provided with two options to register in Nabil SmartBank App; First “sign up through account” and Second “sign up through card”. Non-account cardholders can also register in Nabil SmartBank App via “sign up through card” option. Existing Nabil SmartBank users can avail of this feature after updating the app. As we have embarked on a journey for digitization, we are continuously finding ways to provide a rich customer experience. This module will not only enhance customer experience but will also provide convenience to our customers who are looking for a digital platform to inquire about basic card information without having to visit the bank. This feature is also expected to minimize physical contact thus ensuring the health and safety of our valued customers.  Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has 119 branches and 185 ATM networks all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  The Bank is continuously exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs and aims to be the first digital bank in the country.   Nabil Bank has announced the launch of Card Integration in Nabil SmartBank App. Card Integration is a feature that integrates the card system with Nabil SmartBank App (mobile banking app) allowing cardholders to avail card information at the touch of the screen. This feature enables cardholders to view basic card information like card statement, transaction history, card dues, balance status as well as perform actions like activation & deactivation of cards. This feature is available for all cards (Debit, Credit & Prepaid Cards) issued by Nabil Bank.    Customers will be provided with two options to register in Nabil SmartBank App; First “sign up through account” and Second “sign up through card”. Non-account cardholders can also register in Nabil SmartBank App via “sign up through card” option. Existing Nabil SmartBank users can avail of this feature after updating the app. As we have embarked on a journey for digitization, we are continuously finding ways to provide a rich customer experience. This module will not only enhance customer experience but will also provide convenience to our customers who are looking for a digital platform to inquire about basic card information without having to visit the bank. This feature is also expected to minimize physical contact thus ensuring the health and safety of our valued customers.  Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has 119 branches and 185 ATM networks all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  The Bank is continuously exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs and aims to be the first digital bank in the country.   "
2021-04-15,Nabil Bank offering special discount while issuing Nabil ICard and Nabil Credit Cards; offer to remain valid throughout month of Baisakh,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-offering-special-discount-while-issuing-nabil-icard-and-nabil-credit-cards-offer-to-remain-valid-throughout-month-of-baisakh-2021-04-15,"Nabil Bank has decided to provide special discount to its customers while issuing Nabil Icard and Nabil credit card on the occasion of new year 2078. The scheme will remain in place throughout the month of Baisakh, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 119 branches, 185 ATMs and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust / secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers.   Nabil Bank has decided to provide special discount to its customers while issuing Nabil Icard and Nabil credit card on the occasion of new year 2078. The scheme will remain in place throughout the month of Baisakh, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 119 branches, 185 ATMs and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust / secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers.   Nabil Bank has decided to provide special discount to its customers while issuing Nabil Icard and Nabil credit card on the occasion of new year 2078. The scheme will remain in place throughout the month of Baisakh, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 119 branches, 185 ATMs and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust / secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers.   "
2021-04-13,Second Wave of Pandemic and Commercial Banks Still Slashing Interest Rates; Will NEPSE Benefit from Rising Liquidity?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/second-wave-of-pandemic-and-commercial-banks-still-slashing-interest-rates-will-nepse-benefit-from-rising-liquidity-2021-04-13,"The discussion on liquidity has been a hot topic in the investment community today. For a quick comparison, there was excess liquidity of Rs. 51 Arba one day before the nationwide lockdown was imposed. During the pandemic, the liquidity in the economy was as high as Rs. 200 Arba. Fast forward to the present, the central bank has recorded excess liquidity of Rs. 48.5 Arba on Chaitra 23, 2077. When Sharesansar interviewed Mr. Narayan Prasad Pokhrel, Deputy Spokesperson And Information Officer of Nepal Rastra Bank a few days ago, Pokhrel said he is certain about one thing: the central bank will never allow liquidity to be as high as the time when businesses were shut down during the pandemic. However, it seems that the second phase of Covid-19 is starting to hit the country. After a dramatic decline in Covid-19 cases, Nepal has been seeing a steady rise in the number of infections lately. Thirteen deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours. Doctors warn that health facilities will be overwhelmed within a few days if containment measures are not taken to slow down the virus spread. (reference: The Kathmandu Post) As such, it is not only the country's liquidity that can go south if the second wave hits. Economic activities will be brought to a halt if another lockdown is imposed in the country, and the nation's banking system will once again receive a surge in deposits that it can direct nowhere. The investors' community had anticipated that liquidity would gradually retrace to its normal state in the upcoming new year. However, the interest rates update published by banks and financial institutions today tells otherwise. The industry giant Nabil Bank has given a significant slashing on its interest rates profile. As of now, the bank paid interest in the range of 2.51% to 4.51% for savings. Effective from the first day of the upcoming new year, the bank will only pay in the range of 1.51% to 3.51%. Mega Bank has also made a significant reduction in its interest rates profile on savings. While the previous range was (3.5% - 5.5%) on savings, the range maintained in the first month of the new year will be only (1.75% - 3.5%). Similarly, NMB Bank previously paid interest in the range of 3.1% to 5.1% for savings. Now, the bank will pay from 2% to 4%. Nonetheless, Nepal SBI Bank is an exception. The commercial bank has actually increased its interest rates for savings from (2% - 3%) in the previous month to (3% - 3.16%) effective from tomorrow. Interest rates on fixed deposits have gone down too. Nabil Bank previously gave interest payments in the range of 6.01% to 7.51% to individuals for fixed deposits. Now, the bank will only pay in the range of 5.01% to 6.51%. Similarly, NMB Bank previously paid interest in the range of 5.75% to 8% to individuals for fixed deposits. Now, the bank will only pay 5% to 7% annual interest payments for the same deposit instruments. For institutions, NMB bank would pay as high as 8% for fixed deposits. Now, they will only get a maximum of 7% interest payment p.a. Base rates in commercial banks have mostly been retained or decreased. While Nabil Bank used the base rate of 5.58% maintained as of Magh, the bank now maintains the base rate of 5.49% as of Falgun. As an exception, Nepal SBI Bank has seen a slight increase in the base rate, from 7.31% maintained in Magh to 7.32% maintained in Falgun. Nepal's capital market has witnessed an explicit bull trend in the year 2077. This was caused in large by the excess liquidity that piled in the nation's banking system during the pandemic. When the nation's economy and liquidity balance was just begun to recover, news of rising virus cases is certainly a contradictory statement to investors' expectations. Furthermore, commercial banks have slashed interest rates in a way they had not done after the rates were at their lowest during the pandemic. In the world of macroeconomics and finance, no two events are exactly the same. There are numerous constraints that may come to play. As such, the best decision for an investor would be to observe with a watchful eye as the situation unfolds.  The discussion on liquidity has been a hot topic in the investment community today. For a quick comparison, there was excess liquidity of Rs. 51 Arba one day before the nationwide lockdown was imposed. During the pandemic, the liquidity in the economy was as high as Rs. 200 Arba. Fast forward to the present, the central bank has recorded excess liquidity of Rs. 48.5 Arba on Chaitra 23, 2077. When Sharesansar interviewed Mr. Narayan Prasad Pokhrel, Deputy Spokesperson And Information Officer of Nepal Rastra Bank a few days ago, Pokhrel said he is certain about one thing: the central bank will never allow liquidity to be as high as the time when businesses were shut down during the pandemic. However, it seems that the second phase of Covid-19 is starting to hit the country. After a dramatic decline in Covid-19 cases, Nepal has been seeing a steady rise in the number of infections lately. Thirteen deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours. Doctors warn that health facilities will be overwhelmed within a few days if containment measures are not taken to slow down the virus spread. (reference: The Kathmandu Post) As such, it is not only the country's liquidity that can go south if the second wave hits. Economic activities will be brought to a halt if another lockdown is imposed in the country, and the nation's banking system will once again receive a surge in deposits that it can direct nowhere. The investors' community had anticipated that liquidity would gradually retrace to its normal state in the upcoming new year. However, the interest rates update published by banks and financial institutions today tells otherwise. The industry giant Nabil Bank has given a significant slashing on its interest rates profile. As of now, the bank paid interest in the range of 2.51% to 4.51% for savings. Effective from the first day of the upcoming new year, the bank will only pay in the range of 1.51% to 3.51%. Mega Bank has also made a significant reduction in its interest rates profile on savings. While the previous range was (3.5% - 5.5%) on savings, the range maintained in the first month of the new year will be only (1.75% - 3.5%). Similarly, NMB Bank previously paid interest in the range of 3.1% to 5.1% for savings. Now, the bank will pay from 2% to 4%. Nonetheless, Nepal SBI Bank is an exception. The commercial bank has actually increased its interest rates for savings from (2% - 3%) in the previous month to (3% - 3.16%) effective from tomorrow. Interest rates on fixed deposits have gone down too. Nabil Bank previously gave interest payments in the range of 6.01% to 7.51% to individuals for fixed deposits. Now, the bank will only pay in the range of 5.01% to 6.51%. Similarly, NMB Bank previously paid interest in the range of 5.75% to 8% to individuals for fixed deposits. Now, the bank will only pay 5% to 7% annual interest payments for the same deposit instruments. For institutions, NMB bank would pay as high as 8% for fixed deposits. Now, they will only get a maximum of 7% interest payment p.a. Base rates in commercial banks have mostly been retained or decreased. While Nabil Bank used the base rate of 5.58% maintained as of Magh, the bank now maintains the base rate of 5.49% as of Falgun. As an exception, Nepal SBI Bank has seen a slight increase in the base rate, from 7.31% maintained in Magh to 7.32% maintained in Falgun. Nepal's capital market has witnessed an explicit bull trend in the year 2077. This was caused in large by the excess liquidity that piled in the nation's banking system during the pandemic. When the nation's economy and liquidity balance was just begun to recover, news of rising virus cases is certainly a contradictory statement to investors' expectations. Furthermore, commercial banks have slashed interest rates in a way they had not done after the rates were at their lowest during the pandemic. In the world of macroeconomics and finance, no two events are exactly the same. There are numerous constraints that may come to play. As such, the best decision for an investor would be to observe with a watchful eye as the situation unfolds.  The discussion on liquidity has been a hot topic in the investment community today. For a quick comparison, there was excess liquidity of Rs. 51 Arba one day before the nationwide lockdown was imposed. During the pandemic, the liquidity in the economy was as high as Rs. 200 Arba. Fast forward to the present, the central bank has recorded excess liquidity of Rs. 48.5 Arba on Chaitra 23, 2077. When Sharesansar interviewed Mr. Narayan Prasad Pokhrel, Deputy Spokesperson And Information Officer of Nepal Rastra Bank a few days ago, Pokhrel said he is certain about one thing: the central bank will never allow liquidity to be as high as the time when businesses were shut down during the pandemic. However, it seems that the second phase of Covid-19 is starting to hit the country. After a dramatic decline in Covid-19 cases, Nepal has been seeing a steady rise in the number of infections lately. Thirteen deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours. Doctors warn that health facilities will be overwhelmed within a few days if containment measures are not taken to slow down the virus spread. (reference: The Kathmandu Post) As such, it is not only the country's liquidity that can go south if the second wave hits. Economic activities will be brought to a halt if another lockdown is imposed in the country, and the nation's banking system will once again receive a surge in deposits that it can direct nowhere. The investors' community had anticipated that liquidity would gradually retrace to its normal state in the upcoming new year. However, the interest rates update published by banks and financial institutions today tells otherwise. The industry giant Nabil Bank has given a significant slashing on its interest rates profile. As of now, the bank paid interest in the range of 2.51% to 4.51% for savings. Effective from the first day of the upcoming new year, the bank will only pay in the range of 1.51% to 3.51%. Mega Bank has also made a significant reduction in its interest rates profile on savings. While the previous range was (3.5% - 5.5%) on savings, the range maintained in the first month of the new year will be only (1.75% - 3.5%). Similarly, NMB Bank previously paid interest in the range of 3.1% to 5.1% for savings. Now, the bank will pay from 2% to 4%. Nonetheless, Nepal SBI Bank is an exception. The commercial bank has actually increased its interest rates for savings from (2% - 3%) in the previous month to (3% - 3.16%) effective from tomorrow. Interest rates on fixed deposits have gone down too. Nabil Bank previously gave interest payments in the range of 6.01% to 7.51% to individuals for fixed deposits. Now, the bank will only pay in the range of 5.01% to 6.51%. Similarly, NMB Bank previously paid interest in the range of 5.75% to 8% to individuals for fixed deposits. Now, the bank will only pay 5% to 7% annual interest payments for the same deposit instruments. For institutions, NMB bank would pay as high as 8% for fixed deposits. Now, they will only get a maximum of 7% interest payment p.a. Base rates in commercial banks have mostly been retained or decreased. While Nabil Bank used the base rate of 5.58% maintained as of Magh, the bank now maintains the base rate of 5.49% as of Falgun. As an exception, Nepal SBI Bank has seen a slight increase in the base rate, from 7.31% maintained in Magh to 7.32% maintained in Falgun. Nepal's capital market has witnessed an explicit bull trend in the year 2077. This was caused in large by the excess liquidity that piled in the nation's banking system during the pandemic. When the nation's economy and liquidity balance was just begun to recover, news of rising virus cases is certainly a contradictory statement to investors' expectations. Furthermore, commercial banks have slashed interest rates in a way they had not done after the rates were at their lowest during the pandemic. In the world of macroeconomics and finance, no two events are exactly the same. There are numerous constraints that may come to play. As such, the best decision for an investor would be to observe with a watchful eye as the situation unfolds.  "
2021-04-09,Nabil Bank partners with Daraz to provide its card users attractive cashback this new year; bank to provide cashback of upto 20% in order to promote digital payment,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-partners-with-daraz-to-provide-its-card-users-attractive-cashback-this-new-year-bank-to-provide-cashback-of-upto-20-in-order-to-promote-digital-payment-2021-04-09,"Nabil Bank has launched a new year cashback scheme in an association with Daraz beginning from Chaitra 29, 2077 till Baisakh 7, 2077.  As per the new arrangement, customers opting to purchase goods in  Daraz using Nabil’s debit cards will get 15% or upto Rs 1000 cashback while those using credit cards will receive 20% or upto Rs 1500 cashback. The bank currently has 119 branches, 175 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 remit agents, as per the media statement.   Nabil Bank has launched a new year cashback scheme in an association with Daraz beginning from Chaitra 29, 2077 till Baisakh 7, 2077.  As per the new arrangement, customers opting to purchase goods in  Daraz using Nabil’s debit cards will get 15% or upto Rs 1000 cashback while those using credit cards will receive 20% or upto Rs 1500 cashback. The bank currently has 119 branches, 175 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 remit agents, as per the media statement.   Nabil Bank has launched a new year cashback scheme in an association with Daraz beginning from Chaitra 29, 2077 till Baisakh 7, 2077.  As per the new arrangement, customers opting to purchase goods in  Daraz using Nabil’s debit cards will get 15% or upto Rs 1000 cashback while those using credit cards will receive 20% or upto Rs 1500 cashback. The bank currently has 119 branches, 175 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 remit agents, as per the media statement.   "
2021-04-07,Nabil Bank inaugurates QR Payment Service in Dhumbarahi Vegetables and Fruits Store; bank making effort to digitize everyday transactions of common man,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inaugurates-qr-payment-service-in-dhumbarahi-vegetables-and-fruits-store-bank-making-effort-to-digitize-everyday-transactions-of-common-man-2021-04-07,"Nabil Bank Limited has successfully inaugurated Quick Response (QR) Payment Service in Dhumbarahi Vegetables and Fruits Store as a result of which customers can now easily make QR code payments using their mobile banking application or digital wallet. The program was formally inaugurated by Nepal Rastra Bank’s Executive Director, Mr. Bhuban Kadel in the presence of senior management staffs of Nabil Bank and executive members of Nepal Dhumbarahi Tarkari Tatha Falful Kendra.  QR code payments are a faster and hassle-free form of digital payments which serve as an innovative alternative to cash or debit/credit card payments with no transaction costs involved. Nabil Bank has been onboarding QR merchants since March 2020 to facilitate contactless payments and promote digital transactions. Currently, the Bank has 3,000+ QR merchants all across the country which is significantly growing by the day. Speaking about the program, Executive Director of NRB, Mr. Bhuban Kadel said “In the recent days, the use of QR codes for payments has significantly increased in the market. This has been heavily contributed by financial institutions like Nabil Bank who are playing a significant role in enabling digital payments to enable financial access, financial inclusion, transparency and economic prosperity. With the increase in transactions, Nepal Rastra Bank is going to make necessary arrangements to maintain QR code more systematically.” Likewise, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank said “Nabil QR Code is an easy, secure and affordable form of digital payment service, which we believe will have a significant contribution towards economic prosperity. With an objective to promote digital payments through QR, Nabil Bank has embarked in a mission to expand the access and reach of its QR Payment Service all across the nation.” Nabil Bank is pleased to inaugurate Over the years, we have witnessed innovation in payment systems in Nepal as a result of which people are slowly shifting from cash to digital payments. Having said that, there remains a significant portion of transactions that are still done through cash. In today’s digital age, there is an imminent need to introduce innovative technologies that facilitate digital payments.’.  Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With the launch of Nabil Digi Bank unit, the Bank is exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs. The Bank aims to be the first digital bank of the country and Nabil Digi Bank is progressively improving customer touchpoints and internal processes to achieve the goal.   Nabil Bank Limited has successfully inaugurated Quick Response (QR) Payment Service in Dhumbarahi Vegetables and Fruits Store as a result of which customers can now easily make QR code payments using their mobile banking application or digital wallet. The program was formally inaugurated by Nepal Rastra Bank’s Executive Director, Mr. Bhuban Kadel in the presence of senior management staffs of Nabil Bank and executive members of Nepal Dhumbarahi Tarkari Tatha Falful Kendra.  QR code payments are a faster and hassle-free form of digital payments which serve as an innovative alternative to cash or debit/credit card payments with no transaction costs involved. Nabil Bank has been onboarding QR merchants since March 2020 to facilitate contactless payments and promote digital transactions. Currently, the Bank has 3,000+ QR merchants all across the country which is significantly growing by the day. Speaking about the program, Executive Director of NRB, Mr. Bhuban Kadel said “In the recent days, the use of QR codes for payments has significantly increased in the market. This has been heavily contributed by financial institutions like Nabil Bank who are playing a significant role in enabling digital payments to enable financial access, financial inclusion, transparency and economic prosperity. With the increase in transactions, Nepal Rastra Bank is going to make necessary arrangements to maintain QR code more systematically.” Likewise, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank said “Nabil QR Code is an easy, secure and affordable form of digital payment service, which we believe will have a significant contribution towards economic prosperity. With an objective to promote digital payments through QR, Nabil Bank has embarked in a mission to expand the access and reach of its QR Payment Service all across the nation.” Nabil Bank is pleased to inaugurate Over the years, we have witnessed innovation in payment systems in Nepal as a result of which people are slowly shifting from cash to digital payments. Having said that, there remains a significant portion of transactions that are still done through cash. In today’s digital age, there is an imminent need to introduce innovative technologies that facilitate digital payments.’.  Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With the launch of Nabil Digi Bank unit, the Bank is exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs. The Bank aims to be the first digital bank of the country and Nabil Digi Bank is progressively improving customer touchpoints and internal processes to achieve the goal.   Nabil Bank Limited has successfully inaugurated Quick Response (QR) Payment Service in Dhumbarahi Vegetables and Fruits Store as a result of which customers can now easily make QR code payments using their mobile banking application or digital wallet. The program was formally inaugurated by Nepal Rastra Bank’s Executive Director, Mr. Bhuban Kadel in the presence of senior management staffs of Nabil Bank and executive members of Nepal Dhumbarahi Tarkari Tatha Falful Kendra.  QR code payments are a faster and hassle-free form of digital payments which serve as an innovative alternative to cash or debit/credit card payments with no transaction costs involved. Nabil Bank has been onboarding QR merchants since March 2020 to facilitate contactless payments and promote digital transactions. Currently, the Bank has 3,000+ QR merchants all across the country which is significantly growing by the day. Speaking about the program, Executive Director of NRB, Mr. Bhuban Kadel said “In the recent days, the use of QR codes for payments has significantly increased in the market. This has been heavily contributed by financial institutions like Nabil Bank who are playing a significant role in enabling digital payments to enable financial access, financial inclusion, transparency and economic prosperity. With the increase in transactions, Nepal Rastra Bank is going to make necessary arrangements to maintain QR code more systematically.” Likewise, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank said “Nabil QR Code is an easy, secure and affordable form of digital payment service, which we believe will have a significant contribution towards economic prosperity. With an objective to promote digital payments through QR, Nabil Bank has embarked in a mission to expand the access and reach of its QR Payment Service all across the nation.” Nabil Bank is pleased to inaugurate Over the years, we have witnessed innovation in payment systems in Nepal as a result of which people are slowly shifting from cash to digital payments. Having said that, there remains a significant portion of transactions that are still done through cash. In today’s digital age, there is an imminent need to introduce innovative technologies that facilitate digital payments.’.  Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With the launch of Nabil Digi Bank unit, the Bank is exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs. The Bank aims to be the first digital bank of the country and Nabil Digi Bank is progressively improving customer touchpoints and internal processes to achieve the goal.   "
2021-04-05,Nabil Bank & Nepal Sthaniya Tayari Poshak Utpadan Sangh collaborate to support local readymade garment manufacturers of nation; to extend affordable credit facility with other necessary services,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-nepal-sthaniya-tayari-poshak-utpadan-sangh-collaborate-to-support-local-readymade-garment-manufacturers-of-nation-to-extend-affordable-credit-facility-with-other-necessary-services-2021-04-05,"Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank, and Nepal Sthaniya Tayari Poshak Utpadan Sangh (NSTPUS) have entered into a collaboration to provide various SME loans for catering the requirements of the members of NSPTUS.  Under this strategic partnership, local readymade garment manufacturers shall be benefitted by various SME loans from Nabil Bank to meet their financing requirements for sustainable growth. Furthermore, those enterprises shall get advisory/development support from NSTPUS. Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head - SME & MF Division, Nabil Bank and Mr. Kishor Nepal, President, NSTPUS, Kathmandu signed the agreement in the presence of Mr. Manoj Kumar Yadav, Manager, Microfinance Division, Nabil Bank and Mr. Sumit Pradhan, Vice President, NSTPUS. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil) said, “Nabil Bank believes that the nation’s development is only possible with the upliftment of the local businesses in terms of development of skills for sustainability, increment in production and job creation through easy access to finance. With this strategic partnership, bank shall provide various types of banking facilities including SME loans as per the requirements of local readymade garment manufacturers thereby enabling them to grow their businesses and contribute to the economic development of the country. Nabil Bank, being a responsible corporate citizen of the country, is very excited to collaborate with NSTPUS in providing support to the local businesses in promoting “Make in Nepal” products throughout the country. Likewise, Mr. Kishor Nepal said “Nepal Sthaniya Tayari Poshak Utpadan Sangh has been established with the main slogan ""Let's Use Nepali Products, Let's Help in Nation Building"". We believe that locally manufactured readymade garments will be a great prospect and a beacon of hope, a path to prosperity as we become self-sufficient in domestic goods by replacing imports.” Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank, and Nepal Sthaniya Tayari Poshak Utpadan Sangh (NSTPUS) have entered into a collaboration to provide various SME loans for catering the requirements of the members of NSPTUS.  Under this strategic partnership, local readymade garment manufacturers shall be benefitted by various SME loans from Nabil Bank to meet their financing requirements for sustainable growth. Furthermore, those enterprises shall get advisory/development support from NSTPUS. Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head - SME & MF Division, Nabil Bank and Mr. Kishor Nepal, President, NSTPUS, Kathmandu signed the agreement in the presence of Mr. Manoj Kumar Yadav, Manager, Microfinance Division, Nabil Bank and Mr. Sumit Pradhan, Vice President, NSTPUS. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil) said, “Nabil Bank believes that the nation’s development is only possible with the upliftment of the local businesses in terms of development of skills for sustainability, increment in production and job creation through easy access to finance. With this strategic partnership, bank shall provide various types of banking facilities including SME loans as per the requirements of local readymade garment manufacturers thereby enabling them to grow their businesses and contribute to the economic development of the country. Nabil Bank, being a responsible corporate citizen of the country, is very excited to collaborate with NSTPUS in providing support to the local businesses in promoting “Make in Nepal” products throughout the country. Likewise, Mr. Kishor Nepal said “Nepal Sthaniya Tayari Poshak Utpadan Sangh has been established with the main slogan ""Let's Use Nepali Products, Let's Help in Nation Building"". We believe that locally manufactured readymade garments will be a great prospect and a beacon of hope, a path to prosperity as we become self-sufficient in domestic goods by replacing imports.” Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank, and Nepal Sthaniya Tayari Poshak Utpadan Sangh (NSTPUS) have entered into a collaboration to provide various SME loans for catering the requirements of the members of NSPTUS.  Under this strategic partnership, local readymade garment manufacturers shall be benefitted by various SME loans from Nabil Bank to meet their financing requirements for sustainable growth. Furthermore, those enterprises shall get advisory/development support from NSTPUS. Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head - SME & MF Division, Nabil Bank and Mr. Kishor Nepal, President, NSTPUS, Kathmandu signed the agreement in the presence of Mr. Manoj Kumar Yadav, Manager, Microfinance Division, Nabil Bank and Mr. Sumit Pradhan, Vice President, NSTPUS. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil) said, “Nabil Bank believes that the nation’s development is only possible with the upliftment of the local businesses in terms of development of skills for sustainability, increment in production and job creation through easy access to finance. With this strategic partnership, bank shall provide various types of banking facilities including SME loans as per the requirements of local readymade garment manufacturers thereby enabling them to grow their businesses and contribute to the economic development of the country. Nabil Bank, being a responsible corporate citizen of the country, is very excited to collaborate with NSTPUS in providing support to the local businesses in promoting “Make in Nepal” products throughout the country. Likewise, Mr. Kishor Nepal said “Nepal Sthaniya Tayari Poshak Utpadan Sangh has been established with the main slogan ""Let's Use Nepali Products, Let's Help in Nation Building"". We believe that locally manufactured readymade garments will be a great prospect and a beacon of hope, a path to prosperity as we become self-sufficient in domestic goods by replacing imports.” "
2021-04-04,Nabil Bank & R&D Innovative Solution collaborate to provide Agriculture & Livestock Loans to Agricultural Technicians; bank commits to developing agro sector of Nation,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-rd-innovative-solution-collaborate-to-provide-agriculture-livestock-loans-to-agricultural-technicians-bank-commits-to-developing-agro-sector-of-nation-2021-04-04,"Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank, and R&D Innovative Solution Pvt. Ltd. (R&D) have collaborated to lend in the agriculture and livestock sector to fulfil the financial needs for agro-related business along with the interest subsidized loan as per NRB Guidelines.  Under this strategic partnership, the bank agrees to be a supportive bank in fostering agriculture and livestock in Nepal. Further, R&D supports agricultural technicians by providing linkage with the Bank. Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF Division, Nabil Bank, and Ms. Sunita Nhemaphuki, Chairperson, R&D, Kathmandu signed the agreement in the presence of Mr. Manoj Kumar Yadav, Manager- Microfinance Division, Nabil Bank & Ms. Sushma Sharma, former Banker & Women Entrepreneur. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil) said, “Nabil Bank has always given priority to Sustainable Banking & believes that lending to agriculture sector shall help the sustainable growth of the agri-business which is one of the major contributors of Nepalese GDP. We are very excited to collaborate with R&D to provide various types of banking facilities including agriculture and livestock loans as per the requirements of the Agricultural Technician enabling them to become successful Agri-Entrepreneur and contribute to the economic development of the country. With this partnership, Nabil Bank has started an innovation in traditional financing with a fusion of technical knowledge with entrepreneurship development in the Agriculture sector. We believe that this initiative shall grow on a larger scale and change the financing pattern of Nepalese Banking arena in the longer run”. Likewise, Ms. Sunita Nhemhafuki said “One of the main problems of Nepal's agricultural sector is the inability to run agribusiness or enterprises because of the study of agriculture. Therefore, Nabil Bank and R&D have been instrumental in creating an environment conducive to entrepreneurship by providing easy access to loans to those who have studied agriculture. R&D Innovative Solutions has brought agri-entrepreneurship development program with financial access to agricultural technicians for agri-entrepreneurship development. For this, R&D Innovative Solutions will select the technicians who want to start an enterprise, provide basic training on entrepreneurship development and recommend to the bank for concessional loans. Nabil Bank will provide soft loan of up to NRs 1 million based on the business plan of the recommended technicians. It is believed that this program will provide technical services to other farmers through those agri-entrepreneurs along with sustainable development of agriculture sector of the country. Those who have studied JTA, JT, ISCAG and B.Sc.AG will be able to participate in this program. Under this program, it is planned to develop at least 100 agricultural technicians in their place within the next one year. Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank, and R&D Innovative Solution Pvt. Ltd. (R&D) have collaborated to lend in the agriculture and livestock sector to fulfil the financial needs for agro-related business along with the interest subsidized loan as per NRB Guidelines.  Under this strategic partnership, the bank agrees to be a supportive bank in fostering agriculture and livestock in Nepal. Further, R&D supports agricultural technicians by providing linkage with the Bank. Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF Division, Nabil Bank, and Ms. Sunita Nhemaphuki, Chairperson, R&D, Kathmandu signed the agreement in the presence of Mr. Manoj Kumar Yadav, Manager- Microfinance Division, Nabil Bank & Ms. Sushma Sharma, former Banker & Women Entrepreneur. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil) said, “Nabil Bank has always given priority to Sustainable Banking & believes that lending to agriculture sector shall help the sustainable growth of the agri-business which is one of the major contributors of Nepalese GDP. We are very excited to collaborate with R&D to provide various types of banking facilities including agriculture and livestock loans as per the requirements of the Agricultural Technician enabling them to become successful Agri-Entrepreneur and contribute to the economic development of the country. With this partnership, Nabil Bank has started an innovation in traditional financing with a fusion of technical knowledge with entrepreneurship development in the Agriculture sector. We believe that this initiative shall grow on a larger scale and change the financing pattern of Nepalese Banking arena in the longer run”. Likewise, Ms. Sunita Nhemhafuki said “One of the main problems of Nepal's agricultural sector is the inability to run agribusiness or enterprises because of the study of agriculture. Therefore, Nabil Bank and R&D have been instrumental in creating an environment conducive to entrepreneurship by providing easy access to loans to those who have studied agriculture. R&D Innovative Solutions has brought agri-entrepreneurship development program with financial access to agricultural technicians for agri-entrepreneurship development. For this, R&D Innovative Solutions will select the technicians who want to start an enterprise, provide basic training on entrepreneurship development and recommend to the bank for concessional loans. Nabil Bank will provide soft loan of up to NRs 1 million based on the business plan of the recommended technicians. It is believed that this program will provide technical services to other farmers through those agri-entrepreneurs along with sustainable development of agriculture sector of the country. Those who have studied JTA, JT, ISCAG and B.Sc.AG will be able to participate in this program. Under this program, it is planned to develop at least 100 agricultural technicians in their place within the next one year. Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank, and R&D Innovative Solution Pvt. Ltd. (R&D) have collaborated to lend in the agriculture and livestock sector to fulfil the financial needs for agro-related business along with the interest subsidized loan as per NRB Guidelines.  Under this strategic partnership, the bank agrees to be a supportive bank in fostering agriculture and livestock in Nepal. Further, R&D supports agricultural technicians by providing linkage with the Bank. Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF Division, Nabil Bank, and Ms. Sunita Nhemaphuki, Chairperson, R&D, Kathmandu signed the agreement in the presence of Mr. Manoj Kumar Yadav, Manager- Microfinance Division, Nabil Bank & Ms. Sushma Sharma, former Banker & Women Entrepreneur. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil) said, “Nabil Bank has always given priority to Sustainable Banking & believes that lending to agriculture sector shall help the sustainable growth of the agri-business which is one of the major contributors of Nepalese GDP. We are very excited to collaborate with R&D to provide various types of banking facilities including agriculture and livestock loans as per the requirements of the Agricultural Technician enabling them to become successful Agri-Entrepreneur and contribute to the economic development of the country. With this partnership, Nabil Bank has started an innovation in traditional financing with a fusion of technical knowledge with entrepreneurship development in the Agriculture sector. We believe that this initiative shall grow on a larger scale and change the financing pattern of Nepalese Banking arena in the longer run”. Likewise, Ms. Sunita Nhemhafuki said “One of the main problems of Nepal's agricultural sector is the inability to run agribusiness or enterprises because of the study of agriculture. Therefore, Nabil Bank and R&D have been instrumental in creating an environment conducive to entrepreneurship by providing easy access to loans to those who have studied agriculture. R&D Innovative Solutions has brought agri-entrepreneurship development program with financial access to agricultural technicians for agri-entrepreneurship development. For this, R&D Innovative Solutions will select the technicians who want to start an enterprise, provide basic training on entrepreneurship development and recommend to the bank for concessional loans. Nabil Bank will provide soft loan of up to NRs 1 million based on the business plan of the recommended technicians. It is believed that this program will provide technical services to other farmers through those agri-entrepreneurs along with sustainable development of agriculture sector of the country. Those who have studied JTA, JT, ISCAG and B.Sc.AG will be able to participate in this program. Under this program, it is planned to develop at least 100 agricultural technicians in their place within the next one year. "
2021-04-02,Nabil Bank becomes biggest taxpayer among banks for 5th time; registers corporate tax of 1900 M during previous fiscal year,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-becomes-biggest-taxpayer-among-banks-for-5th-time-registers-corporate-tax-of-1900-m-during-previous-fiscal-year-2021-04-02,"Among all the Banks and financial institutions in Nepal, Nabil Bank has stood as the highest taxpayer in FY 2075/76 by depositing a Corporate Tax of 1900 million. Over the last ten years, this is the fifth time for Nabil Bank to be the highest taxpayer bank. Nabil feels proud for making the contribution to the government on its broad mission of Nation Building Mechanism through its activities primarily focused on business proliferation, employment creation, and contribution to state coffer in the form of tax. Nabil has pioneered many banking activities in the country which has played a catalytic role in life lining the economy but also paved the way for their further growth and broader reach to the public for their need for better livelihood.  In this fiscal year, Nabil Bank has also been recognized as ‘Nepal’s Best Bank’ by Euromoney for 2 years in a row and has recently bagged the ‘Excellence in Employee Experience’ award by Growth Seller. Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 119 branches, 185 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery to enhance value to the customers. Among all the Banks and financial institutions in Nepal, Nabil Bank has stood as the highest taxpayer in FY 2075/76 by depositing a Corporate Tax of 1900 million. Over the last ten years, this is the fifth time for Nabil Bank to be the highest taxpayer bank. Nabil feels proud for making the contribution to the government on its broad mission of Nation Building Mechanism through its activities primarily focused on business proliferation, employment creation, and contribution to state coffer in the form of tax. Nabil has pioneered many banking activities in the country which has played a catalytic role in life lining the economy but also paved the way for their further growth and broader reach to the public for their need for better livelihood.  In this fiscal year, Nabil Bank has also been recognized as ‘Nepal’s Best Bank’ by Euromoney for 2 years in a row and has recently bagged the ‘Excellence in Employee Experience’ award by Growth Seller. Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 119 branches, 185 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery to enhance value to the customers. Among all the Banks and financial institutions in Nepal, Nabil Bank has stood as the highest taxpayer in FY 2075/76 by depositing a Corporate Tax of 1900 million. Over the last ten years, this is the fifth time for Nabil Bank to be the highest taxpayer bank. Nabil feels proud for making the contribution to the government on its broad mission of Nation Building Mechanism through its activities primarily focused on business proliferation, employment creation, and contribution to state coffer in the form of tax. Nabil has pioneered many banking activities in the country which has played a catalytic role in life lining the economy but also paved the way for their further growth and broader reach to the public for their need for better livelihood.  In this fiscal year, Nabil Bank has also been recognized as ‘Nepal’s Best Bank’ by Euromoney for 2 years in a row and has recently bagged the ‘Excellence in Employee Experience’ award by Growth Seller. Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 119 branches, 185 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery to enhance value to the customers. "
2021-03-29,Nabil Bank receives Excellence in Employee Experience Award; gets felicitated for its superior work culture and employee satisfaction,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-receives-excellence-in-employee-experience-award-gets-felicitated-for-its-superior-work-culture-and-employee-satisfaction-2021-03-29,"Nabil Bank has received Excellence in Employee Experience Award from the HR-based organization Growth Seller.  The bank has received the award for the priority it provides to the welfare of its employees. The award committee was headed by Prof. Dr. Subash K.C. the bank provides an appropriate work environment, staff motivation, and remuneration to its more than 1128 employees, as per the statement from the bank. The bank currently has 119 branches, 185 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 remit agents under its network. Nabil Bank has received Excellence in Employee Experience Award from the HR-based organization Growth Seller.  The bank has received the award for the priority it provides to the welfare of its employees. The award committee was headed by Prof. Dr. Subash K.C. the bank provides an appropriate work environment, staff motivation, and remuneration to its more than 1128 employees, as per the statement from the bank. The bank currently has 119 branches, 185 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 remit agents under its network. Nabil Bank has received Excellence in Employee Experience Award from the HR-based organization Growth Seller.  The bank has received the award for the priority it provides to the welfare of its employees. The award committee was headed by Prof. Dr. Subash K.C. the bank provides an appropriate work environment, staff motivation, and remuneration to its more than 1128 employees, as per the statement from the bank. The bank currently has 119 branches, 185 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 remit agents under its network. "
2021-03-26,Nabil Bank felicitates Chef Santosh Shah as one of the Heroes of Nepal; gives continuity to its practice of recognizing influential Nepalese figures,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-felicitates-chef-santosh-shah-as-one-of-the-heroes-of-nepal-gives-continuity-to-its-practice-of-recognizing-influencial-nepalese-figures-2021-03-26,"Nabil Bank has launched the second edition of the ‘Heroes of Nepal’ series which was initiated in 2019 as a platform to recognize Nepalese who have achieved extraordinary feats. Similar to the last edition, the purpose behind the series is to highlight and learn from the life journeys of exceptional Nepalese, so as to draw inspiration from them for all Nepalese to strive to lead extraordinary lives.  In an event organized in the National Academy Hall on Thursday (25th March 2021), Nabil Bank kicked off the second edition of the Heroes of Nepal series by felicitating Chef Santosh Shah for putting Nepalese cuisine firmly on the map and making the entire nation proud. During a panel discussion between Chef Santosh Shah, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah and Ms. Anushka Shrestha, Chef Santosh Shah not only spoke about his inspiring achievements but also shared the challenges of his journey through life. Through this event, we dove a little deeper into areas from which we all can draw inspiration. The event was attended by the Bank’s senior management team. Nabil Bank felicitated Chef Santosh Shah for his inspiring accomplishment as a form of an encouragement for him to continue pursuing his passion. Following which, Nabil Bank also committed to providing financial assistance to build an e-library and scholarships to 5 girl children belonging to Chef Shah’s hometown. Nabil Bank plans to give continuation to this series in the days ahead by bringing in young people who have done something great in their lives so that we can all gain inspirations from their life journeys. Nabil Bank has launched the second edition of the ‘Heroes of Nepal’ series which was initiated in 2019 as a platform to recognize Nepalese who have achieved extraordinary feats. Similar to the last edition, the purpose behind the series is to highlight and learn from the life journeys of exceptional Nepalese, so as to draw inspiration from them for all Nepalese to strive to lead extraordinary lives.  In an event organized in the National Academy Hall on Thursday (25th March 2021), Nabil Bank kicked off the second edition of the Heroes of Nepal series by felicitating Chef Santosh Shah for putting Nepalese cuisine firmly on the map and making the entire nation proud. During a panel discussion between Chef Santosh Shah, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah and Ms. Anushka Shrestha, Chef Santosh Shah not only spoke about his inspiring achievements but also shared the challenges of his journey through life. Through this event, we dove a little deeper into areas from which we all can draw inspiration. The event was attended by the Bank’s senior management team. Nabil Bank felicitated Chef Santosh Shah for his inspiring accomplishment as a form of an encouragement for him to continue pursuing his passion. Following which, Nabil Bank also committed to providing financial assistance to build an e-library and scholarships to 5 girl children belonging to Chef Shah’s hometown. Nabil Bank plans to give continuation to this series in the days ahead by bringing in young people who have done something great in their lives so that we can all gain inspirations from their life journeys. Nabil Bank has launched the second edition of the ‘Heroes of Nepal’ series which was initiated in 2019 as a platform to recognize Nepalese who have achieved extraordinary feats. Similar to the last edition, the purpose behind the series is to highlight and learn from the life journeys of exceptional Nepalese, so as to draw inspiration from them for all Nepalese to strive to lead extraordinary lives.  In an event organized in the National Academy Hall on Thursday (25th March 2021), Nabil Bank kicked off the second edition of the Heroes of Nepal series by felicitating Chef Santosh Shah for putting Nepalese cuisine firmly on the map and making the entire nation proud. During a panel discussion between Chef Santosh Shah, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah and Ms. Anushka Shrestha, Chef Santosh Shah not only spoke about his inspiring achievements but also shared the challenges of his journey through life. Through this event, we dove a little deeper into areas from which we all can draw inspiration. The event was attended by the Bank’s senior management team. Nabil Bank felicitated Chef Santosh Shah for his inspiring accomplishment as a form of an encouragement for him to continue pursuing his passion. Following which, Nabil Bank also committed to providing financial assistance to build an e-library and scholarships to 5 girl children belonging to Chef Shah’s hometown. Nabil Bank plans to give continuation to this series in the days ahead by bringing in young people who have done something great in their lives so that we can all gain inspirations from their life journeys. "
2021-03-24,Nabil Bank launches US Dollar “Nabil iCard”; Now customers can pay in rupees for transactions in Dollars from Nepal,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-us-dollar-nabil-icard-now-customers-can-pay-in-rupees-for-transactions-in-dollars-from-nepal-2021-03-24,"In line with the recent circular issued by the Nepal Rastra Bank regarding the international prepaid card, Nabil Bank has launched a new international card called Nabil iCard that lets you pay in Rupees for transactions in Dollars from Nepal. This card enables general customers with active Nabil savings/current accounts and PAN card to avail US Dollar Nabil iCard of up to USD 500 per year.  With the help of Nabil iCard, customers will be able to pay for a host of international e-commerce transactions around the world (Except India). The payments can be made for either products or services as per the customer’s needs. Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 119 branches, 185 ATMs, and more than 1500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With the addition of this new international card, the Bank intends to and is prepared for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. In line with the recent circular issued by the Nepal Rastra Bank regarding the international prepaid card, Nabil Bank has launched a new international card called Nabil iCard that lets you pay in Rupees for transactions in Dollars from Nepal. This card enables general customers with active Nabil savings/current accounts and PAN card to avail US Dollar Nabil iCard of up to USD 500 per year.  With the help of Nabil iCard, customers will be able to pay for a host of international e-commerce transactions around the world (Except India). The payments can be made for either products or services as per the customer’s needs. Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 119 branches, 185 ATMs, and more than 1500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With the addition of this new international card, the Bank intends to and is prepared for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. In line with the recent circular issued by the Nepal Rastra Bank regarding the international prepaid card, Nabil Bank has launched a new international card called Nabil iCard that lets you pay in Rupees for transactions in Dollars from Nepal. This card enables general customers with active Nabil savings/current accounts and PAN card to avail US Dollar Nabil iCard of up to USD 500 per year.  With the help of Nabil iCard, customers will be able to pay for a host of international e-commerce transactions around the world (Except India). The payments can be made for either products or services as per the customer’s needs. Nabil Bank is operating with a wide network with 119 branches, 185 ATMs, and more than 1500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With the addition of this new international card, the Bank intends to and is prepared for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. "
2021-03-21,Nabil Bank and Nepal Chemists & Druggists Association collaborate to support Chemists and Druggists Businesses; bank to issue customized SME loan to support medicine business,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-nepal-chemists-druggists-association-collaborate-to-support-chemists-and-druggists-businesses-bank-to-issue-customized-sme-loan-to-support-medicine-business-2021-03-21,"Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank, and Nepal Chemists & Druggists Association, Kathmandu (NCDA) have collaborated to support Chemists and Druggists businesses by providing customized SME loans for catering requirement of different loan sizes subject to successful compliance with the bank’s credit norms.  Under this strategic partnership, the bank agrees to be a supportive bank in fostering the Chemists and Drug business sectors in Nepal. Furthermore, NCDA supports its members by providing linkage with the Bank. Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF Division, Nabil Bank, and Mr. Badri Prasad Shrestha, President of NCDA, Kathmandu signed the agreement in a program organized by NCDA with a wholesaler of Kathmandu, Bhaktapur, and Lalitpur in the presence of Mr. Bharat Bhattarai, Head of Department and Drug Administration. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF Division, Nabil Bank said, “Nabil Bank has always been a pioneer in venturing various facilities/services to Chemists and Druggists Businesses around the country in order to increase and uplift the overall economy of the nation. We are one of the leading banks to finance in Medicine line in view of sustainable growth of the customers as well as the bank. We are hopeful that this partnership shall help our customers to fulfill the current gap in the financial management of the borrowing. Also, Nabil Bank is delighted to be associated with the businesses involved in emergency services.” Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank, and Nepal Chemists & Druggists Association, Kathmandu (NCDA) have collaborated to support Chemists and Druggists businesses by providing customized SME loans for catering requirement of different loan sizes subject to successful compliance with the bank’s credit norms.  Under this strategic partnership, the bank agrees to be a supportive bank in fostering the Chemists and Drug business sectors in Nepal. Furthermore, NCDA supports its members by providing linkage with the Bank. Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF Division, Nabil Bank, and Mr. Badri Prasad Shrestha, President of NCDA, Kathmandu signed the agreement in a program organized by NCDA with a wholesaler of Kathmandu, Bhaktapur, and Lalitpur in the presence of Mr. Bharat Bhattarai, Head of Department and Drug Administration. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF Division, Nabil Bank said, “Nabil Bank has always been a pioneer in venturing various facilities/services to Chemists and Druggists Businesses around the country in order to increase and uplift the overall economy of the nation. We are one of the leading banks to finance in Medicine line in view of sustainable growth of the customers as well as the bank. We are hopeful that this partnership shall help our customers to fulfill the current gap in the financial management of the borrowing. Also, Nabil Bank is delighted to be associated with the businesses involved in emergency services.” Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank, and Nepal Chemists & Druggists Association, Kathmandu (NCDA) have collaborated to support Chemists and Druggists businesses by providing customized SME loans for catering requirement of different loan sizes subject to successful compliance with the bank’s credit norms.  Under this strategic partnership, the bank agrees to be a supportive bank in fostering the Chemists and Drug business sectors in Nepal. Furthermore, NCDA supports its members by providing linkage with the Bank. Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF Division, Nabil Bank, and Mr. Badri Prasad Shrestha, President of NCDA, Kathmandu signed the agreement in a program organized by NCDA with a wholesaler of Kathmandu, Bhaktapur, and Lalitpur in the presence of Mr. Bharat Bhattarai, Head of Department and Drug Administration. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF Division, Nabil Bank said, “Nabil Bank has always been a pioneer in venturing various facilities/services to Chemists and Druggists Businesses around the country in order to increase and uplift the overall economy of the nation. We are one of the leading banks to finance in Medicine line in view of sustainable growth of the customers as well as the bank. We are hopeful that this partnership shall help our customers to fulfill the current gap in the financial management of the borrowing. Also, Nabil Bank is delighted to be associated with the businesses involved in emergency services.” "
2021-03-18,Nabil Bank hikes up its interest rate for individual FD products; to provide 7.51% interest to the depositors from now onwards,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-hikes-up-its-interest-rate-for-individual-fd-products-to-provide-751-interest-to-the-depositors-from-now-onwards-2021-03-18,"Nabil Bank has revised the interest rate for its individual Fixed Deposit products thereby providing 7.51% annual interest to the depositors.  The new interest will be applicable for deposits above six months, as per the media statement. The leading bank currently has 119 branches, 185 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 Nabil Remit Agents around the nation. Nabil Bank has revised the interest rate for its individual Fixed Deposit products thereby providing 7.51% annual interest to the depositors.  The new interest will be applicable for deposits above six months, as per the media statement. The leading bank currently has 119 branches, 185 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 Nabil Remit Agents around the nation. Nabil Bank has revised the interest rate for its individual Fixed Deposit products thereby providing 7.51% annual interest to the depositors.  The new interest will be applicable for deposits above six months, as per the media statement. The leading bank currently has 119 branches, 185 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 Nabil Remit Agents around the nation. "
2021-03-14,Commercial Banks Raise Interest Rates After So Long; Is This Responsible for NEPSE's Decline?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-raise-interest-rates-after-so-long-is-this-responsible-for-nepses-decline-2021-03-14,"Commercial Banks have started to unveil their updated interest rates profile for the month of Chaitra. While banks were on interest rates slashing race because of piling liquidity during the pandemic, banking sources now say that the liquidity is gradually reverting to its normal state. It is logical that things won't be as messed up as the time when we were in a nationwide lockdown and businesses were brought to a complete halt. Selective data sampling was done in this research article. This is not representative of all the commercial banks. The stock market is highly sensitive to change in interest rates. The NEPSE index made its all-time high after the lockdown, which was partly fuelled by the fall in interest rates. As keeping money idle in savings began to yield lower returns, depositors channeled their funds to the stock market instead.  While the cyclical trend of the NEPSE index signals that the index might actually be in an extended bull cycle, the rise in interest rates may influence investor sentiment on the stock market, at least temporarily. As to where the index is headed is completely in the hands of investors.  Commercial Banks have started to unveil their updated interest rates profile for the month of Chaitra. While banks were on interest rates slashing race because of piling liquidity during the pandemic, banking sources now say that the liquidity is gradually reverting to its normal state. It is logical that things won't be as messed up as the time when we were in a nationwide lockdown and businesses were brought to a complete halt. Selective data sampling was done in this research article. This is not representative of all the commercial banks. The stock market is highly sensitive to change in interest rates. The NEPSE index made its all-time high after the lockdown, which was partly fuelled by the fall in interest rates. As keeping money idle in savings began to yield lower returns, depositors channeled their funds to the stock market instead.  While the cyclical trend of the NEPSE index signals that the index might actually be in an extended bull cycle, the rise in interest rates may influence investor sentiment on the stock market, at least temporarily. As to where the index is headed is completely in the hands of investors.  Commercial Banks have started to unveil their updated interest rates profile for the month of Chaitra. While banks were on interest rates slashing race because of piling liquidity during the pandemic, banking sources now say that the liquidity is gradually reverting to its normal state. It is logical that things won't be as messed up as the time when we were in a nationwide lockdown and businesses were brought to a complete halt. Selective data sampling was done in this research article. This is not representative of all the commercial banks. The stock market is highly sensitive to change in interest rates. The NEPSE index made its all-time high after the lockdown, which was partly fuelled by the fall in interest rates. As keeping money idle in savings began to yield lower returns, depositors channeled their funds to the stock market instead.  While the cyclical trend of the NEPSE index signals that the index might actually be in an extended bull cycle, the rise in interest rates may influence investor sentiment on the stock market, at least temporarily. As to where the index is headed is completely in the hands of investors.  "
2021-03-10,"Shares Listed: 3,38,26,616.29 Bonus Shares of NABIL",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/shares-listed-3382661629-bonus-shares-of-nabil-2021-03-10,"3,38,26,616.29 units bonus shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) have been listed in NEPSE. Nabil Bank recently convened its 36th AGM for the FY 2076-77 under the leadership of its chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudyal on Poush 29, 2077. The AGM endorsed the board’s proposal to provide a 35.26% dividend to its shareholders: 33.5% bonus shares and 1.76% cash dividend. The same bonus shares are now listed in NEPSE. As of writing, NABIL has a last trading day's closing price of Rs. 1,275. 3,38,26,616.29 units bonus shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) have been listed in NEPSE. Nabil Bank recently convened its 36th AGM for the FY 2076-77 under the leadership of its chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudyal on Poush 29, 2077. The AGM endorsed the board’s proposal to provide a 35.26% dividend to its shareholders: 33.5% bonus shares and 1.76% cash dividend. The same bonus shares are now listed in NEPSE. As of writing, NABIL has a last trading day's closing price of Rs. 1,275. 3,38,26,616.29 units bonus shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) have been listed in NEPSE. Nabil Bank recently convened its 36th AGM for the FY 2076-77 under the leadership of its chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudyal on Poush 29, 2077. The AGM endorsed the board’s proposal to provide a 35.26% dividend to its shareholders: 33.5% bonus shares and 1.76% cash dividend. The same bonus shares are now listed in NEPSE. As of writing, NABIL has a last trading day's closing price of Rs. 1,275. "
2021-03-05,Nabil Bank supports initiative on Strengthening Local Health Systems for Preparedness and Response to Pandemics; makes use of PPP model to respond to health crises in all 7 provinces,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-supports-initiative-on-strengthening-local-health-systems-for-preparedness-and-response-to-pandemics-makes-use-of-ppp-model-to-respond-to-health-crises-in-all-7-provinces-2021-03-05,"As a joint effort to fight the COVID-19 pandemic that was declared as a public health emergency of international concern on 30 January 2020, a first-ever joint capacity building initiative for local front line health workers was organized by the MoHP, Asian Disaster Preparedness Centre (ADPC), National Disaster Risk Reduction Centre (NDRC), Nabil Bank and Chaudhary Foundation, in close consultation with the MoHP/ Health Emergency Operation Centre (MoHP/HEOC). The one-day orientation on Preparedness and Response to Pandemic has been completed across the six (6) provinces and next week at Karnali province that broadly aims to strengthen local health systems for preparedness and response to pandemics like COVID-19 and other health emergencies/ disasters.  More than 280 front-line health workers from both public and private health facilities and humanitarian organizations actively participated in the one-day orientation program.  In this context, this national sharing workshop primarily offers an important platform to share the issues, challenges, experiences, and learning from the provinces and identify possible joint partnership and resource mobilization opportunities for some concrete follow up actions to continue the momentum and seek valuable inputs in the knowledge products including a training manual for front-line health workers in the context of health emergency preparedness and response. This is a unique public-private partnership initiative in the health emergency response and disaster risk management, which is much appreciated by federal, provincial, and local government authorities for significant contributions from the private sector as part of their corporate social responsibility. This first-ever joint PPP has encouraged all stakeholders to continue the momentum and partnership to initiate similar activities that make Nepal a disaster-resilient nation. We are confident that this joint initiative will continue in the years to come to contribute collectively to make Nepal a disaster-resilient nation. As a joint effort to fight the COVID-19 pandemic that was declared as a public health emergency of international concern on 30 January 2020, a first-ever joint capacity building initiative for local front line health workers was organized by the MoHP, Asian Disaster Preparedness Centre (ADPC), National Disaster Risk Reduction Centre (NDRC), Nabil Bank and Chaudhary Foundation, in close consultation with the MoHP/ Health Emergency Operation Centre (MoHP/HEOC). The one-day orientation on Preparedness and Response to Pandemic has been completed across the six (6) provinces and next week at Karnali province that broadly aims to strengthen local health systems for preparedness and response to pandemics like COVID-19 and other health emergencies/ disasters.  More than 280 front-line health workers from both public and private health facilities and humanitarian organizations actively participated in the one-day orientation program.  In this context, this national sharing workshop primarily offers an important platform to share the issues, challenges, experiences, and learning from the provinces and identify possible joint partnership and resource mobilization opportunities for some concrete follow up actions to continue the momentum and seek valuable inputs in the knowledge products including a training manual for front-line health workers in the context of health emergency preparedness and response. This is a unique public-private partnership initiative in the health emergency response and disaster risk management, which is much appreciated by federal, provincial, and local government authorities for significant contributions from the private sector as part of their corporate social responsibility. This first-ever joint PPP has encouraged all stakeholders to continue the momentum and partnership to initiate similar activities that make Nepal a disaster-resilient nation. We are confident that this joint initiative will continue in the years to come to contribute collectively to make Nepal a disaster-resilient nation. As a joint effort to fight the COVID-19 pandemic that was declared as a public health emergency of international concern on 30 January 2020, a first-ever joint capacity building initiative for local front line health workers was organized by the MoHP, Asian Disaster Preparedness Centre (ADPC), National Disaster Risk Reduction Centre (NDRC), Nabil Bank and Chaudhary Foundation, in close consultation with the MoHP/ Health Emergency Operation Centre (MoHP/HEOC). The one-day orientation on Preparedness and Response to Pandemic has been completed across the six (6) provinces and next week at Karnali province that broadly aims to strengthen local health systems for preparedness and response to pandemics like COVID-19 and other health emergencies/ disasters.  More than 280 front-line health workers from both public and private health facilities and humanitarian organizations actively participated in the one-day orientation program.  In this context, this national sharing workshop primarily offers an important platform to share the issues, challenges, experiences, and learning from the provinces and identify possible joint partnership and resource mobilization opportunities for some concrete follow up actions to continue the momentum and seek valuable inputs in the knowledge products including a training manual for front-line health workers in the context of health emergency preparedness and response. This is a unique public-private partnership initiative in the health emergency response and disaster risk management, which is much appreciated by federal, provincial, and local government authorities for significant contributions from the private sector as part of their corporate social responsibility. This first-ever joint PPP has encouraged all stakeholders to continue the momentum and partnership to initiate similar activities that make Nepal a disaster-resilient nation. We are confident that this joint initiative will continue in the years to come to contribute collectively to make Nepal a disaster-resilient nation. "
2021-03-02,Nabil Bank launches new promo video to motivate saving habit; makes an attempt to encourage more people to join banking channel,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-new-promo-video-to-motivate-saving-habit-makes-an-attempt-to-encourage-more-people-to-join-banking-channel-2021-03-02,"Nabil Bank has launched a new promotional video to promote saving habits among the people.   The bank currently has 119 branches, 185 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 remit agents under its network. Nabil Bank has launched a new promotional video to promote saving habits among the people.   The bank currently has 119 branches, 185 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 remit agents under its network. Nabil Bank has launched a new promotional video to promote saving habits among the people.   The bank currently has 119 branches, 185 ATM outlets, and more than 1500 remit agents under its network. "
2021-02-26,"In Last 8 Months of Bullish Ride, Would Investing in Banks Give Better Returns Than NEPSE's Gain? What Does Data Tell Us?",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/price-growth-and-index-growth-comparision-2021-02-26,"It has been a huge roller coaster ride for NEPSE after Covid-19. With increasing speculation as to how this was going to end, investors were first bearish then went on to be bullish in the market. There could be various speculation for this scenario; some of them being high liquidity, end of the bear cycle, new monetary policy, reported vaccines, etc. Despite many economists predicting the economic recovery to be L-shaped, the market showed a V-shaped recovery and this resulted in new highs for the only stock market of Nepal. When we look at the world's stock market, the same is the case. Despite a huge drop in the unemployment rate, a drop in production, with businesses facing cash crunch to service debt, companies declaring bankruptcy, the stock market has been booming along. With the increasing market, all the sectors have been benefitted. Most of the hydropower companies that were trading below their book value went up in value by more than 150%. The Life Insurance sector has gained more than 190%. The banking sector which makes up most of the Nepalese stock market has grown by a little over 85% from the low during Covid-19. So, in this article, we will be focusing on the banking sector and compare its growth with NEPSE. In this article, Sharesansar took the base price of Shrawan 01, 2077 and compared it with the adjusted price of Falgun 13, 2077. This article focuses on what your investment would have yielded today adjusting the dividends, if you had invested your money on Shrawan 01, 2077.   The total market yielded 83.12% in 7 months period. When we observe the yield of individual stocks and compare it with the NEPSE index itself, only 6 banks outperformed the market while 20 banks underperformed the market.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) yielded the most with a total of 123.62%. NABIL is followed by Prabhu Bank Limited (PRVU) which yielded 114.24% and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) which yielded 109.87% stood in the third position.  Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) which is considered the safest of all the banks yielded only 3% which is the lowest return from the banking industry. It has been a huge roller coaster ride for NEPSE after Covid-19. With increasing speculation as to how this was going to end, investors were first bearish then went on to be bullish in the market. There could be various speculation for this scenario; some of them being high liquidity, end of the bear cycle, new monetary policy, reported vaccines, etc. Despite many economists predicting the economic recovery to be L-shaped, the market showed a V-shaped recovery and this resulted in new highs for the only stock market of Nepal. When we look at the world's stock market, the same is the case. Despite a huge drop in the unemployment rate, a drop in production, with businesses facing cash crunch to service debt, companies declaring bankruptcy, the stock market has been booming along. With the increasing market, all the sectors have been benefitted. Most of the hydropower companies that were trading below their book value went up in value by more than 150%. The Life Insurance sector has gained more than 190%. The banking sector which makes up most of the Nepalese stock market has grown by a little over 85% from the low during Covid-19. So, in this article, we will be focusing on the banking sector and compare its growth with NEPSE. In this article, Sharesansar took the base price of Shrawan 01, 2077 and compared it with the adjusted price of Falgun 13, 2077. This article focuses on what your investment would have yielded today adjusting the dividends, if you had invested your money on Shrawan 01, 2077.   The total market yielded 83.12% in 7 months period. When we observe the yield of individual stocks and compare it with the NEPSE index itself, only 6 banks outperformed the market while 20 banks underperformed the market.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) yielded the most with a total of 123.62%. NABIL is followed by Prabhu Bank Limited (PRVU) which yielded 114.24% and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) which yielded 109.87% stood in the third position.  Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) which is considered the safest of all the banks yielded only 3% which is the lowest return from the banking industry. It has been a huge roller coaster ride for NEPSE after Covid-19. With increasing speculation as to how this was going to end, investors were first bearish then went on to be bullish in the market. There could be various speculation for this scenario; some of them being high liquidity, end of the bear cycle, new monetary policy, reported vaccines, etc. Despite many economists predicting the economic recovery to be L-shaped, the market showed a V-shaped recovery and this resulted in new highs for the only stock market of Nepal. When we look at the world's stock market, the same is the case. Despite a huge drop in the unemployment rate, a drop in production, with businesses facing cash crunch to service debt, companies declaring bankruptcy, the stock market has been booming along. With the increasing market, all the sectors have been benefitted. Most of the hydropower companies that were trading below their book value went up in value by more than 150%. The Life Insurance sector has gained more than 190%. The banking sector which makes up most of the Nepalese stock market has grown by a little over 85% from the low during Covid-19. So, in this article, we will be focusing on the banking sector and compare its growth with NEPSE. In this article, Sharesansar took the base price of Shrawan 01, 2077 and compared it with the adjusted price of Falgun 13, 2077. This article focuses on what your investment would have yielded today adjusting the dividends, if you had invested your money on Shrawan 01, 2077.   The total market yielded 83.12% in 7 months period. When we observe the yield of individual stocks and compare it with the NEPSE index itself, only 6 banks outperformed the market while 20 banks underperformed the market.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) yielded the most with a total of 123.62%. NABIL is followed by Prabhu Bank Limited (PRVU) which yielded 114.24% and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) which yielded 109.87% stood in the third position.  Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) which is considered the safest of all the banks yielded only 3% which is the lowest return from the banking industry. "
2021-02-23,Nabil Bank initiates QR code-based payment at Kanchi Bazar in Bhairahawa; shoppers in every store can make direct payment for their purchases via their MoBanking services,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-initiates-qr-code-based-payment-at-kanchi-bazar-in-bhairahawa-shoppers-in-every-store-can-make-direct-payment-for-their-purchases-via-their-mobanking-services-2021-02-23,"Nabil Bank has initiated QR code-based payment system at Kanchi Bazar of Bhairahawa where shoppers can now simply scan the QR code of the bank using their MoBanking service to pay for their purchases of agro products.  After the new arrangement, the fruit and vegetable stores in the agro market have started accepting QR code-based payment for their products right to their bank accounts, as per the media statement. Director of Nepal Rastra Bank province office Mr. Sudip Phuyal has kickstarted the new service at the agro market amid a program, as per the media statement. The bank currently has more than 2000 QR code receiving merchants all over the nation, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has initiated QR code-based payment system at Kanchi Bazar of Bhairahawa where shoppers can now simply scan the QR code of the bank using their MoBanking service to pay for their purchases of agro products.  After the new arrangement, the fruit and vegetable stores in the agro market have started accepting QR code-based payment for their products right to their bank accounts, as per the media statement. Director of Nepal Rastra Bank province office Mr. Sudip Phuyal has kickstarted the new service at the agro market amid a program, as per the media statement. The bank currently has more than 2000 QR code receiving merchants all over the nation, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has initiated QR code-based payment system at Kanchi Bazar of Bhairahawa where shoppers can now simply scan the QR code of the bank using their MoBanking service to pay for their purchases of agro products.  After the new arrangement, the fruit and vegetable stores in the agro market have started accepting QR code-based payment for their products right to their bank accounts, as per the media statement. Director of Nepal Rastra Bank province office Mr. Sudip Phuyal has kickstarted the new service at the agro market amid a program, as per the media statement. The bank currently has more than 2000 QR code receiving merchants all over the nation, as per the media statement. "
2021-02-22,Foneloan scheme receives good traction with 1000 loan applications within 100 days; working professionals can avail collateral-free bank loan within few minutes of loan application,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/foneloan-scheme-receives-good-traction-with-1000-loan-applications-within-100-days-working-professionals-can-avail-collateral-free-bank-loan-within-few-minutes-of-loan-application-2021-02-22,"Foneloan scheme, the recent offering as a collaboration between F1 Soft and different commercial banks, has received good response from the customers as 1000 customers have made borrowing under this scheme within 100 days of its inception.  Mobile banking users of Nabil Bank, Laxmi Bank and Kumari Bank are currently eligible to receive loan amount upto Rs 2 lakh whose application can be placed right from their mobile banking service without visiting the bank and without any collateral. Customers with good credit history can easily avail Foneloan within a few minutes of loan application, as per the media statement. Foneloan scheme, the recent offering as a collaboration between F1 Soft and different commercial banks, has received good response from the customers as 1000 customers have made borrowing under this scheme within 100 days of its inception.  Mobile banking users of Nabil Bank, Laxmi Bank and Kumari Bank are currently eligible to receive loan amount upto Rs 2 lakh whose application can be placed right from their mobile banking service without visiting the bank and without any collateral. Customers with good credit history can easily avail Foneloan within a few minutes of loan application, as per the media statement. Foneloan scheme, the recent offering as a collaboration between F1 Soft and different commercial banks, has received good response from the customers as 1000 customers have made borrowing under this scheme within 100 days of its inception.  Mobile banking users of Nabil Bank, Laxmi Bank and Kumari Bank are currently eligible to receive loan amount upto Rs 2 lakh whose application can be placed right from their mobile banking service without visiting the bank and without any collateral. Customers with good credit history can easily avail Foneloan within a few minutes of loan application, as per the media statement. "
2021-02-07,Nabil Bank & Upaya Services collaborate to support MSMEs for various services; association to benefit businesses on several fronts,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-upaya-services-collaborate-to-support-msmes-for-various-services-association-to-benefit-businesses-on-several-fronts-2021-02-07,"Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank and Upaya Services (Upaya) have collaborated to support MSMEs by providing various services available in Upaya Platform as required by the clients of the Bank. Under this strategic partnership, the bank engages Upaya to prepare the preliminary documents required for loan processing to its clients, particularly MSMEs based loan customers. Further, Upaya provides easy and transparent solutions regarding public services by providing linkage with the professional with Upaya who are on-the-field experts having adequate knowledge of the subject matter to the bank clients.  Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF, Nabil Bank and Mr. Raju K.C., General Manager, Upaya signed the agreement. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Basnet said, “Nabil Bank has always been a pioneer in venturing various facilities/services to the MSMEs of the country to increase the access to finance along with the development of the overall economy. We are helping our MSME clients to follow the proper bookkeeping practices and comply with the law/regulation of the country for sustainable growth of the customers as well as the bank. We are hopeful that this partnership will help our customers to fulfill the current gap in financial management of the borrowing MSMEs.”   The association with Nabil Bank Limited has been very fruitful says Raju K.C, General Manager of Upaya Services Limited. He further adds, ‘Upaya has been able to guide and help various borrowers of the bank by providing professional service on financial management, legal, taxation and management related consultation in addition to loan documentation related services. More than 100+ loan borrowers of the bank have been benefited by availing services from Upaya Services Limited till date.’ Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank and Upaya Services (Upaya) have collaborated to support MSMEs by providing various services available in Upaya Platform as required by the clients of the Bank. Under this strategic partnership, the bank engages Upaya to prepare the preliminary documents required for loan processing to its clients, particularly MSMEs based loan customers. Further, Upaya provides easy and transparent solutions regarding public services by providing linkage with the professional with Upaya who are on-the-field experts having adequate knowledge of the subject matter to the bank clients.  Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF, Nabil Bank and Mr. Raju K.C., General Manager, Upaya signed the agreement. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Basnet said, “Nabil Bank has always been a pioneer in venturing various facilities/services to the MSMEs of the country to increase the access to finance along with the development of the overall economy. We are helping our MSME clients to follow the proper bookkeeping practices and comply with the law/regulation of the country for sustainable growth of the customers as well as the bank. We are hopeful that this partnership will help our customers to fulfill the current gap in financial management of the borrowing MSMEs.”   The association with Nabil Bank Limited has been very fruitful says Raju K.C, General Manager of Upaya Services Limited. He further adds, ‘Upaya has been able to guide and help various borrowers of the bank by providing professional service on financial management, legal, taxation and management related consultation in addition to loan documentation related services. More than 100+ loan borrowers of the bank have been benefited by availing services from Upaya Services Limited till date.’ Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank and Upaya Services (Upaya) have collaborated to support MSMEs by providing various services available in Upaya Platform as required by the clients of the Bank. Under this strategic partnership, the bank engages Upaya to prepare the preliminary documents required for loan processing to its clients, particularly MSMEs based loan customers. Further, Upaya provides easy and transparent solutions regarding public services by providing linkage with the professional with Upaya who are on-the-field experts having adequate knowledge of the subject matter to the bank clients.  Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF, Nabil Bank and Mr. Raju K.C., General Manager, Upaya signed the agreement. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Basnet said, “Nabil Bank has always been a pioneer in venturing various facilities/services to the MSMEs of the country to increase the access to finance along with the development of the overall economy. We are helping our MSME clients to follow the proper bookkeeping practices and comply with the law/regulation of the country for sustainable growth of the customers as well as the bank. We are hopeful that this partnership will help our customers to fulfill the current gap in financial management of the borrowing MSMEs.”   The association with Nabil Bank Limited has been very fruitful says Raju K.C, General Manager of Upaya Services Limited. He further adds, ‘Upaya has been able to guide and help various borrowers of the bank by providing professional service on financial management, legal, taxation and management related consultation in addition to loan documentation related services. More than 100+ loan borrowers of the bank have been benefited by availing services from Upaya Services Limited till date.’ "
2021-02-05,How Exactly Did Commercial Banks Perform in the Second Quarter? A Quick Comparison of the Most Important Metrics,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-bank-q2-comparative-2021-02-05,"Every disaster can be an opportunity. Every difficult time brings out new innovation. The coronavirus pandemic has hit every sector very hard. The banking sector is no different. Even though the banks were slow to grab the opportunity in this pandemic, they increased the online services, increased third party collaboration and integration with startups. The financial performance of the bank is a reflection of how the year has gone so far. Let us find out how Nepalese commercial banks have performed in the second quarter after the pandemic.   As per the net profit of second quarter of FY 2077/78, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 2.31 arba. Similarly, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 2.06 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a net profit of Rs 2.01 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 20 crore. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.15 arba. All commercial banks except 11 have reduced net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last year.   The total net profit for the year is Rs 30.95 arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 32.09 arba. The overall industry net profit has decreased by 3.55%. Distributable profit: As per the distributable profit of a second quarter of 2077/78, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)   is in the lead with a profit of Rs 1.84 arba. Similarly,  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 1.80 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, NMB Bank Limited (NMB) has a net profit of Rs. 1.50  arba. Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) has reported negative distributable profit of Rs. 13.69 crores.  Impairment charge/(reversal) for a loan and other losses: Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 2.07 arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 70.60 crores followed by Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 36.76 crores and Rs 29.78 crores respectively.  (*number presented above is in crore) Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital are Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 21.63 arba capital and Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with Rs 16.42 arba paid-up capital.   * ADBL capital includes 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares * 6 Banks (NMB, NCCB, NBB, NIB, SBI, SBL) dividend (bonus shares) for FY 2076/77 is not adjusted in Paid-up Capital. With an industry average of Rs 7.59 arba, 10 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 7.59 arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks is at Rs 2.05 kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.34 arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 16.45 arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 15.37 arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.35 kharba as a deposit. Only 11 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the second quarter of FY 2077/78, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.68 kharba, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.41 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.34 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 70.08 arba only. Banks had to decrease their interest rates on deposits. Coronavirus pandemic has hit a lot of businesses that have taken a loan from several banks. Commercial banks needed to decrease the interest rates on loans to lessen the impact of the pandemic on several businesses and corporate houses so, depositors had to compromise with a lower interest rate on their deposits during the pandemic.  In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.21 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.03 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 1.70 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 53.12 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.14 kharba. 12 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.14 kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans in order to support the government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting an application for a loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies, and public transportation by rescheduling their loan payment. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 4.77 arba followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 3.94 arba and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB)  with an income of Rs 3.91 arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 2.29 arba. 13 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.18 arba.  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.46 arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank  (RBB) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.43 arba.  Major indicators: Rastra Banijaya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 38.84 per share. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 35.64 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 29.91 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 5.07 per share.  * 6 Banks (NMB, NCCB, NBB, NIB, SBI, SBL) dividend (bonus shares) for FY 2076/77 is not adjusted in Paid-up Capital. Hence, EPS will be changed once bonus shares are adjusted. The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 19.87. 14 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 282.82 which belongs to Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB). Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the second position with Rs 253.18. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q2 of FY 2077/78 i.e. Rs 218.40. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 118.87 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 166.91 per share. 9 companies have net worth more than the industry average. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the least PE ratio of 12.73 times. It is followed by Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL) with PE ratio of 13.49 times. 18 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 22.88 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  * 6 Banks (NMB, NCCB, NBB, NIB, SBI, SBL) dividend (bonus shares) for FY 2076/77 is not adjusted in Paid-up Capital. Hence, PE will be changed once bonus shares are adjusted. In terms of asset quality, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) and Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) reported the lowest NPL of 0.19%. these two companies are followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with NPL of 0.43%. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has reported the highest NPL of 4.23%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have the highest NPL of 3.14%.   In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 19.36%. This is followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with a CAR of 18.73%.  When we look at the indicators of bank, the overall picture doesn't seem so bad after the pandemic. Since central bank applied the expansionary monetary policy to limit the effect of pandemic on the whole economy, banks had to provide loans at cheaper rate which could be one of the reason for lower interest income. However, the banks have disbursed huge amount of loans which indicates that the investments in the economy is increasing. We could also see that most of the banks have collected the provision created in the prior quarters which is a good sign because it indicates that the bank overestimated the provision. Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 207/78:    Every disaster can be an opportunity. Every difficult time brings out new innovation. The coronavirus pandemic has hit every sector very hard. The banking sector is no different. Even though the banks were slow to grab the opportunity in this pandemic, they increased the online services, increased third party collaboration and integration with startups. The financial performance of the bank is a reflection of how the year has gone so far. Let us find out how Nepalese commercial banks have performed in the second quarter after the pandemic.   As per the net profit of second quarter of FY 2077/78, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 2.31 arba. Similarly, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 2.06 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a net profit of Rs 2.01 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 20 crore. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.15 arba. All commercial banks except 11 have reduced net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last year.   The total net profit for the year is Rs 30.95 arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 32.09 arba. The overall industry net profit has decreased by 3.55%. Distributable profit: As per the distributable profit of a second quarter of 2077/78, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)   is in the lead with a profit of Rs 1.84 arba. Similarly,  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 1.80 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, NMB Bank Limited (NMB) has a net profit of Rs. 1.50  arba. Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) has reported negative distributable profit of Rs. 13.69 crores.  Impairment charge/(reversal) for a loan and other losses: Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 2.07 arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 70.60 crores followed by Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 36.76 crores and Rs 29.78 crores respectively.  (*number presented above is in crore) Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital are Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 21.63 arba capital and Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with Rs 16.42 arba paid-up capital.   * ADBL capital includes 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares * 6 Banks (NMB, NCCB, NBB, NIB, SBI, SBL) dividend (bonus shares) for FY 2076/77 is not adjusted in Paid-up Capital. With an industry average of Rs 7.59 arba, 10 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 7.59 arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks is at Rs 2.05 kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.34 arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 16.45 arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 15.37 arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.35 kharba as a deposit. Only 11 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the second quarter of FY 2077/78, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.68 kharba, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.41 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.34 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 70.08 arba only. Banks had to decrease their interest rates on deposits. Coronavirus pandemic has hit a lot of businesses that have taken a loan from several banks. Commercial banks needed to decrease the interest rates on loans to lessen the impact of the pandemic on several businesses and corporate houses so, depositors had to compromise with a lower interest rate on their deposits during the pandemic.  In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.21 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.03 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 1.70 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 53.12 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.14 kharba. 12 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.14 kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans in order to support the government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting an application for a loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies, and public transportation by rescheduling their loan payment. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 4.77 arba followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 3.94 arba and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB)  with an income of Rs 3.91 arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 2.29 arba. 13 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.18 arba.  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.46 arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank  (RBB) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.43 arba.  Major indicators: Rastra Banijaya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 38.84 per share. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 35.64 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 29.91 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 5.07 per share.  * 6 Banks (NMB, NCCB, NBB, NIB, SBI, SBL) dividend (bonus shares) for FY 2076/77 is not adjusted in Paid-up Capital. Hence, EPS will be changed once bonus shares are adjusted. The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 19.87. 14 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 282.82 which belongs to Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB). Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the second position with Rs 253.18. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q2 of FY 2077/78 i.e. Rs 218.40. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 118.87 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 166.91 per share. 9 companies have net worth more than the industry average. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the least PE ratio of 12.73 times. It is followed by Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL) with PE ratio of 13.49 times. 18 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 22.88 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  * 6 Banks (NMB, NCCB, NBB, NIB, SBI, SBL) dividend (bonus shares) for FY 2076/77 is not adjusted in Paid-up Capital. Hence, PE will be changed once bonus shares are adjusted. In terms of asset quality, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) and Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) reported the lowest NPL of 0.19%. these two companies are followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with NPL of 0.43%. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has reported the highest NPL of 4.23%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have the highest NPL of 3.14%.   In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 19.36%. This is followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with a CAR of 18.73%.  When we look at the indicators of bank, the overall picture doesn't seem so bad after the pandemic. Since central bank applied the expansionary monetary policy to limit the effect of pandemic on the whole economy, banks had to provide loans at cheaper rate which could be one of the reason for lower interest income. However, the banks have disbursed huge amount of loans which indicates that the investments in the economy is increasing. We could also see that most of the banks have collected the provision created in the prior quarters which is a good sign because it indicates that the bank overestimated the provision. Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 207/78:    Every disaster can be an opportunity. Every difficult time brings out new innovation. The coronavirus pandemic has hit every sector very hard. The banking sector is no different. Even though the banks were slow to grab the opportunity in this pandemic, they increased the online services, increased third party collaboration and integration with startups. The financial performance of the bank is a reflection of how the year has gone so far. Let us find out how Nepalese commercial banks have performed in the second quarter after the pandemic.   As per the net profit of second quarter of FY 2077/78, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 2.31 arba. Similarly, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 2.06 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a net profit of Rs 2.01 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 20 crore. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.15 arba. All commercial banks except 11 have reduced net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last year.   The total net profit for the year is Rs 30.95 arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 32.09 arba. The overall industry net profit has decreased by 3.55%. Distributable profit: As per the distributable profit of a second quarter of 2077/78, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)   is in the lead with a profit of Rs 1.84 arba. Similarly,  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 1.80 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, NMB Bank Limited (NMB) has a net profit of Rs. 1.50  arba. Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) has reported negative distributable profit of Rs. 13.69 crores.  Impairment charge/(reversal) for a loan and other losses: Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 2.07 arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 70.60 crores followed by Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 36.76 crores and Rs 29.78 crores respectively.  (*number presented above is in crore) Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital are Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 21.63 arba capital and Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with Rs 16.42 arba paid-up capital.   * ADBL capital includes 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares * 6 Banks (NMB, NCCB, NBB, NIB, SBI, SBL) dividend (bonus shares) for FY 2076/77 is not adjusted in Paid-up Capital. With an industry average of Rs 7.59 arba, 10 banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 7.59 arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks is at Rs 2.05 kharba. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.34 arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained the second position with Rs 16.45 arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with a reserve and surplus of Rs 15.37 arba.   On average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.35 kharba as a deposit. Only 11 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the second quarter of FY 2077/78, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.68 kharba, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second-highest deposits of Rs 2.41 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.34 kharba respectively. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 70.08 arba only. Banks had to decrease their interest rates on deposits. Coronavirus pandemic has hit a lot of businesses that have taken a loan from several banks. Commercial banks needed to decrease the interest rates on loans to lessen the impact of the pandemic on several businesses and corporate houses so, depositors had to compromise with a lower interest rate on their deposits during the pandemic.  In today’s context, the concern of investors simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of the loan portfolio equally matters. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 2.21 kharba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 2.03 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a loan portfolio of Rs 1.70 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 53.12 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.14 kharba. 12 commercial banks have a loan portfolio above Rs 1.14 kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans in order to support the government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting an application for a loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies, and public transportation by rescheduling their loan payment. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 4.77 arba followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with an income of Rs 3.94 arba and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB)  with an income of Rs 3.91 arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 2.29 arba. 13 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.18 arba.  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.46 arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank  (RBB) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.43 arba.  Major indicators: Rastra Banijaya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 38.84 per share. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 35.64 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 29.91 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 5.07 per share.  * 6 Banks (NMB, NCCB, NBB, NIB, SBI, SBL) dividend (bonus shares) for FY 2076/77 is not adjusted in Paid-up Capital. Hence, EPS will be changed once bonus shares are adjusted. The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 19.87. 14 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 282.82 which belongs to Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB). Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) is in the second position with Rs 253.18. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q2 of FY 2077/78 i.e. Rs 218.40. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 118.87 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 166.91 per share. 9 companies have net worth more than the industry average. Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has the least PE ratio of 12.73 times. It is followed by Sunrise Bank Limited (SRBL) with PE ratio of 13.49 times. 18 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 22.88 times. (The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter-end. Please look at the current market price to calculate the recent P/E ratio)  * 6 Banks (NMB, NCCB, NBB, NIB, SBI, SBL) dividend (bonus shares) for FY 2076/77 is not adjusted in Paid-up Capital. Hence, PE will be changed once bonus shares are adjusted. In terms of asset quality, Everest Bank Limited (EBL) and Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) reported the lowest NPL of 0.19%. these two companies are followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with NPL of 0.43%. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has reported the highest NPL of 4.23%. Since RBB is not tradeable, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) seems to have the highest NPL of 3.14%.   In terms of Capital Adequacy ratio (CAR), Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) seems to have reported the highest CAR of 19.36%. This is followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with a CAR of 18.73%.  When we look at the indicators of bank, the overall picture doesn't seem so bad after the pandemic. Since central bank applied the expansionary monetary policy to limit the effect of pandemic on the whole economy, banks had to provide loans at cheaper rate which could be one of the reason for lower interest income. However, the banks have disbursed huge amount of loans which indicates that the investments in the economy is increasing. We could also see that most of the banks have collected the provision created in the prior quarters which is a good sign because it indicates that the bank overestimated the provision. Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 207/78:    "
2021-01-31,Commercial Banks and Their Profitability in Second Quarter: A Comparison,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/banking-performance-comparison-2021-01-29,"All the commercial banks listed in NEPSE have published their quarterly reports for the second quarter of the fiscal year 2077/78. Of the 26 commercial banks listed in NEPSE, 9 have reported a higher profit for the period compared to the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year 2076/77. Meanwhile, 17 others have reported a profit that is lower than the amount reported in the second quarter of the previous fiscal year 2076/77. Nonetheless, it should be noted that all commercial banks have remained profitable despite the pandemic. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has reported the highest surge in its net profit in the second quarter of this fiscal year compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year 2076/77. The bank's profit rose a massive 51.50%, i.e. more than half. KBL is closely tailed by NMB Bank with a profit rise of 47.69%. On the other side of things, the profit of Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) has fallen the most in the second quarter compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year 2076/77. Although the bank has a profit of Rs. 65,32,68,000 in the second quarter of this fiscal year, this profit is 62.51% lower than that reported in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year 2076/77. Nepal SBI Bank has the second-highest fall in profit: a staggering 48.55%. SBI has a profit of Rs. 51,48,60,000 in the second quarter of this fiscal year nonetheless. Note: The monetary amount in the following table is in thousands, with the figures rounded off for simplicity.   All the commercial banks listed in NEPSE have published their quarterly reports for the second quarter of the fiscal year 2077/78. Of the 26 commercial banks listed in NEPSE, 9 have reported a higher profit for the period compared to the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year 2076/77. Meanwhile, 17 others have reported a profit that is lower than the amount reported in the second quarter of the previous fiscal year 2076/77. Nonetheless, it should be noted that all commercial banks have remained profitable despite the pandemic. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has reported the highest surge in its net profit in the second quarter of this fiscal year compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year 2076/77. The bank's profit rose a massive 51.50%, i.e. more than half. KBL is closely tailed by NMB Bank with a profit rise of 47.69%. On the other side of things, the profit of Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) has fallen the most in the second quarter compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year 2076/77. Although the bank has a profit of Rs. 65,32,68,000 in the second quarter of this fiscal year, this profit is 62.51% lower than that reported in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year 2076/77. Nepal SBI Bank has the second-highest fall in profit: a staggering 48.55%. SBI has a profit of Rs. 51,48,60,000 in the second quarter of this fiscal year nonetheless. Note: The monetary amount in the following table is in thousands, with the figures rounded off for simplicity.   All the commercial banks listed in NEPSE have published their quarterly reports for the second quarter of the fiscal year 2077/78. Of the 26 commercial banks listed in NEPSE, 9 have reported a higher profit for the period compared to the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year 2076/77. Meanwhile, 17 others have reported a profit that is lower than the amount reported in the second quarter of the previous fiscal year 2076/77. Nonetheless, it should be noted that all commercial banks have remained profitable despite the pandemic. Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has reported the highest surge in its net profit in the second quarter of this fiscal year compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year 2076/77. The bank's profit rose a massive 51.50%, i.e. more than half. KBL is closely tailed by NMB Bank with a profit rise of 47.69%. On the other side of things, the profit of Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) has fallen the most in the second quarter compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year 2076/77. Although the bank has a profit of Rs. 65,32,68,000 in the second quarter of this fiscal year, this profit is 62.51% lower than that reported in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal year 2076/77. Nepal SBI Bank has the second-highest fall in profit: a staggering 48.55%. SBI has a profit of Rs. 51,48,60,000 in the second quarter of this fiscal year nonetheless. Note: The monetary amount in the following table is in thousands, with the figures rounded off for simplicity.   "
2021-01-31,Nabil Bank inaugurates QR Payment Service in Kuleshwor Fruit Market; ANOTHER STEP TOWARDS PROMOTING DIGITAL ECONOMY IN GROUND LEVEL,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inaugurates-qr-payment-service-in-kuleshwor-fruit-market-another-step-towards-promoting-digital-economy-in-ground-level-2021-01-31,"Nabil Bank Limited has successfully inaugurated Quick Response (QR) Payment Service in Kuleshwor Fruit Market as a result of which customers can now easily make QR code payments using their mobile banking application or digital wallet. The program was formally inaugurated by Nepal Rastra Bank’s Governor, Mr. Maha Prasad Adhikari in the presence of NRB’s Executive Director, senior management staffs of Nabil Bank, executive members of Nepal Falful Thok Byabasaya Sangha and President of Krishi Bazar Bikas Co.  QR code payments are faster and hassle-free form of digital payments that serve as an innovative alternative to cash or debit/credit card payments with no transaction costs involved. Nabil Bank has been onboarding QR merchants since March 2020 to facilitate contactless payments and promote digital transactions. Currently, the Bank has 750+ QR merchants all across the country which is significantly growing by the day. Speaking about the program, Governor of NRB, Mr. Maha Prasad Adhikari said “QR code payment is an innovative payment system which is currently on the rise especially because of the Covid – 19 pandemic after which digital banking has become the need of the hour. Financial institutions like Nabil Bank are playing a proactive role in enabling digital payments to enable financial access, financial inclusion, transparency and economic prosperity.” Likewise, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank said “Over the years, we have witnessed innovation in payment systems in Nepal as a result of which people are slowly shifting from cash to digital payments. Having said that, there remains a significant portion of transactions that are still done through cash. In today’s digital age, there is an imminent need to introduce innovative technologies that facilitate digital payments. Nabil QR Code is an easy, secure and affordable form of digital payment service, which we believe will have a significant contribution to economic prosperity’.  Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With the launch of Nabil Digi Bank unit, the Bank is exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs. The Bank aims to be the first digital bank of the country and Nabil Digi Bank is progressively improving customer touchpoints and internal processes to achieve the goal. Nabil Bank Limited has successfully inaugurated Quick Response (QR) Payment Service in Kuleshwor Fruit Market as a result of which customers can now easily make QR code payments using their mobile banking application or digital wallet. The program was formally inaugurated by Nepal Rastra Bank’s Governor, Mr. Maha Prasad Adhikari in the presence of NRB’s Executive Director, senior management staffs of Nabil Bank, executive members of Nepal Falful Thok Byabasaya Sangha and President of Krishi Bazar Bikas Co.  QR code payments are faster and hassle-free form of digital payments that serve as an innovative alternative to cash or debit/credit card payments with no transaction costs involved. Nabil Bank has been onboarding QR merchants since March 2020 to facilitate contactless payments and promote digital transactions. Currently, the Bank has 750+ QR merchants all across the country which is significantly growing by the day. Speaking about the program, Governor of NRB, Mr. Maha Prasad Adhikari said “QR code payment is an innovative payment system which is currently on the rise especially because of the Covid – 19 pandemic after which digital banking has become the need of the hour. Financial institutions like Nabil Bank are playing a proactive role in enabling digital payments to enable financial access, financial inclusion, transparency and economic prosperity.” Likewise, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank said “Over the years, we have witnessed innovation in payment systems in Nepal as a result of which people are slowly shifting from cash to digital payments. Having said that, there remains a significant portion of transactions that are still done through cash. In today’s digital age, there is an imminent need to introduce innovative technologies that facilitate digital payments. Nabil QR Code is an easy, secure and affordable form of digital payment service, which we believe will have a significant contribution to economic prosperity’.  Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With the launch of Nabil Digi Bank unit, the Bank is exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs. The Bank aims to be the first digital bank of the country and Nabil Digi Bank is progressively improving customer touchpoints and internal processes to achieve the goal. Nabil Bank Limited has successfully inaugurated Quick Response (QR) Payment Service in Kuleshwor Fruit Market as a result of which customers can now easily make QR code payments using their mobile banking application or digital wallet. The program was formally inaugurated by Nepal Rastra Bank’s Governor, Mr. Maha Prasad Adhikari in the presence of NRB’s Executive Director, senior management staffs of Nabil Bank, executive members of Nepal Falful Thok Byabasaya Sangha and President of Krishi Bazar Bikas Co.  QR code payments are faster and hassle-free form of digital payments that serve as an innovative alternative to cash or debit/credit card payments with no transaction costs involved. Nabil Bank has been onboarding QR merchants since March 2020 to facilitate contactless payments and promote digital transactions. Currently, the Bank has 750+ QR merchants all across the country which is significantly growing by the day. Speaking about the program, Governor of NRB, Mr. Maha Prasad Adhikari said “QR code payment is an innovative payment system which is currently on the rise especially because of the Covid – 19 pandemic after which digital banking has become the need of the hour. Financial institutions like Nabil Bank are playing a proactive role in enabling digital payments to enable financial access, financial inclusion, transparency and economic prosperity.” Likewise, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank said “Over the years, we have witnessed innovation in payment systems in Nepal as a result of which people are slowly shifting from cash to digital payments. Having said that, there remains a significant portion of transactions that are still done through cash. In today’s digital age, there is an imminent need to introduce innovative technologies that facilitate digital payments. Nabil QR Code is an easy, secure and affordable form of digital payment service, which we believe will have a significant contribution to economic prosperity’.  Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With the launch of Nabil Digi Bank unit, the Bank is exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs. The Bank aims to be the first digital bank of the country and Nabil Digi Bank is progressively improving customer touchpoints and internal processes to achieve the goal. "
2021-01-29,Nabil Bank & FWEAN Collaborates to Support Women Run Enterprises in Nepal; COVID affected MSMEs run by women to receive special credit facility with business consultation,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-fwean-collaborates-to-support-women-run-enterprises-in-nepal-covid-affected-msmes-run-by-women-to-receive-special-credit-facility-with-business-consultation-2021-01-29,"Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank, and Federation of Women Entrepreneurs’ Association of Nepal (FWEAN), a non-profit organization, have collaborated to provide interest subsidized loan & MSME loans for catering requirement of the members of FWEAN. Under this strategic partnership, Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) which are highly affected by COVID 19 pandemic shall be benefitted from MSME loans from Nabil Bank to meet their financing requirements for sustainable growth. Furthermore, those enterprises shall get advisory/development support from FWEAN. The collaborating partners also plan to conduct financial literacy programs under this partnership, as per the media statement.  The agreement was signed by Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF, Nabil Bank, and Ms. Reeta Simha, President, FWEAN. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Basnet (Danil) said, “Nabil Bank highly encourages Women empowerment and has always been stepping ahead in supporting Women Entrepreneurs to develop skills for sustainability, increase in production & job creation through easy access to finance. We are very excited to collaborate with FWEAN to provide various types of banking facilities including MSME loans as per the requirements of its members enabling them to grow their business and contribute to the economic development of the country”. Likewise, Ms. Reeta Simha, President, FWEAN said, ""There can be no peace, no prosperity, and no progress without the full participation of women. We are very grateful towards Nabil Bank for supporting Women Entrepreneurs through Access to Finance.” Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank, and Federation of Women Entrepreneurs’ Association of Nepal (FWEAN), a non-profit organization, have collaborated to provide interest subsidized loan & MSME loans for catering requirement of the members of FWEAN. Under this strategic partnership, Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) which are highly affected by COVID 19 pandemic shall be benefitted from MSME loans from Nabil Bank to meet their financing requirements for sustainable growth. Furthermore, those enterprises shall get advisory/development support from FWEAN. The collaborating partners also plan to conduct financial literacy programs under this partnership, as per the media statement.  The agreement was signed by Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF, Nabil Bank, and Ms. Reeta Simha, President, FWEAN. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Basnet (Danil) said, “Nabil Bank highly encourages Women empowerment and has always been stepping ahead in supporting Women Entrepreneurs to develop skills for sustainability, increase in production & job creation through easy access to finance. We are very excited to collaborate with FWEAN to provide various types of banking facilities including MSME loans as per the requirements of its members enabling them to grow their business and contribute to the economic development of the country”. Likewise, Ms. Reeta Simha, President, FWEAN said, ""There can be no peace, no prosperity, and no progress without the full participation of women. We are very grateful towards Nabil Bank for supporting Women Entrepreneurs through Access to Finance.” Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank, and Federation of Women Entrepreneurs’ Association of Nepal (FWEAN), a non-profit organization, have collaborated to provide interest subsidized loan & MSME loans for catering requirement of the members of FWEAN. Under this strategic partnership, Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) which are highly affected by COVID 19 pandemic shall be benefitted from MSME loans from Nabil Bank to meet their financing requirements for sustainable growth. Furthermore, those enterprises shall get advisory/development support from FWEAN. The collaborating partners also plan to conduct financial literacy programs under this partnership, as per the media statement.  The agreement was signed by Mr. Niraj Kumar Basnet (Danil), Head-SME & MF, Nabil Bank, and Ms. Reeta Simha, President, FWEAN. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Basnet (Danil) said, “Nabil Bank highly encourages Women empowerment and has always been stepping ahead in supporting Women Entrepreneurs to develop skills for sustainability, increase in production & job creation through easy access to finance. We are very excited to collaborate with FWEAN to provide various types of banking facilities including MSME loans as per the requirements of its members enabling them to grow their business and contribute to the economic development of the country”. Likewise, Ms. Reeta Simha, President, FWEAN said, ""There can be no peace, no prosperity, and no progress without the full participation of women. We are very grateful towards Nabil Bank for supporting Women Entrepreneurs through Access to Finance.” "
2021-01-28,Nabil Bank reported slight decline in net profit in Second Quarter; Look at the major highlights of Q2,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-reported-slight-decline-in-net-profit-in-second-quarter-look-at-the-major-highlights-of-q2-2021-01-28,Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its second-quarter report for the FY 2077/2078 with a decline in Net Profit by a meager 1.27%. The bank's net profit has decreased from Rs. 2.04 Arba in the second quarter of FY 2076/2077 to Rs. 2.01 Arba in the second quarter of FY 2077/2078. The bank reported Rs. 1.84 Arba as distributable profit after P/L appropriation and regulatory requirements in this quarter. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 4.90% to Rs. 2.00 kharba (compared to immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 15.18% to Rs. 1.70 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the second quarter. The Net Interest Income (core business income) of the bank has decreased by 9.53% to Rs. 3.12 arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 13.48 Arba with Rs. 15.37 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 0.60%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 29.91 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 214.08. The company traded at a P/B multiple of 5.29 times. Click here for Q2 report Major Highlights:   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its second-quarter report for the FY 2077/2078 with a decline in Net Profit by a meager 1.27%. The bank's net profit has decreased from Rs. 2.04 Arba in the second quarter of FY 2076/2077 to Rs. 2.01 Arba in the second quarter of FY 2077/2078. The bank reported Rs. 1.84 Arba as distributable profit after P/L appropriation and regulatory requirements in this quarter. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 4.90% to Rs. 2.00 kharba (compared to immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 15.18% to Rs. 1.70 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the second quarter. The Net Interest Income (core business income) of the bank has decreased by 9.53% to Rs. 3.12 arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 13.48 Arba with Rs. 15.37 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 0.60%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 29.91 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 214.08. The company traded at a P/B multiple of 5.29 times. Click here for Q2 report Major Highlights:   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its second-quarter report for the FY 2077/2078 with a decline in Net Profit by a meager 1.27%. The bank's net profit has decreased from Rs. 2.04 Arba in the second quarter of FY 2076/2077 to Rs. 2.01 Arba in the second quarter of FY 2077/2078. The bank reported Rs. 1.84 Arba as distributable profit after P/L appropriation and regulatory requirements in this quarter. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 4.90% to Rs. 2.00 kharba (compared to immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 15.18% to Rs. 1.70 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the second quarter. The Net Interest Income (core business income) of the bank has decreased by 9.53% to Rs. 3.12 arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 13.48 Arba with Rs. 15.37 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remained at 0.60%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 29.91 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 214.08. The company traded at a P/B multiple of 5.29 times. Click here for Q2 report Major Highlights:   
2021-01-14,Nabil Bank virtually convenes its 36th AGM; endorses proposal of 35.26% dividend to shareholders,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-virtually-convenes-its-36th-agm-endorses-proposal-of-3526-dividend-to-shareholders-2021-01-14,"Nabil Bank has virtually convened its 36th AGM for the FY 2076-77 under the leadership of its chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudyal on Poush 29, 2077. The AGM has endorsed the board’s proposal to provide a 35.26% dividend to its shareholders from the profit it had made in the previous fiscal year. After the endorsement of the bonus shares, the paid-up capital of the bank will scale up to Rs 13.48 arba. The AGM also elected Mr. Ananta Poudel and Mr. Pravin Tibrewala as new board members from the public shareholder group, as per the media statement.   The bank had maintained a balance sheet of Rs 237 arba, earned a net profit of Rs 3.46 arba, maintained EPS of 36.16 by the end of the previous fiscal year, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 119 branches, 185 ATM booths, and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents spread across the nation. Nabil Bank has virtually convened its 36th AGM for the FY 2076-77 under the leadership of its chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudyal on Poush 29, 2077. The AGM has endorsed the board’s proposal to provide a 35.26% dividend to its shareholders from the profit it had made in the previous fiscal year. After the endorsement of the bonus shares, the paid-up capital of the bank will scale up to Rs 13.48 arba. The AGM also elected Mr. Ananta Poudel and Mr. Pravin Tibrewala as new board members from the public shareholder group, as per the media statement.   The bank had maintained a balance sheet of Rs 237 arba, earned a net profit of Rs 3.46 arba, maintained EPS of 36.16 by the end of the previous fiscal year, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 119 branches, 185 ATM booths, and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents spread across the nation. Nabil Bank has virtually convened its 36th AGM for the FY 2076-77 under the leadership of its chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Paudyal on Poush 29, 2077. The AGM has endorsed the board’s proposal to provide a 35.26% dividend to its shareholders from the profit it had made in the previous fiscal year. After the endorsement of the bonus shares, the paid-up capital of the bank will scale up to Rs 13.48 arba. The AGM also elected Mr. Ananta Poudel and Mr. Pravin Tibrewala as new board members from the public shareholder group, as per the media statement.   The bank had maintained a balance sheet of Rs 237 arba, earned a net profit of Rs 3.46 arba, maintained EPS of 36.16 by the end of the previous fiscal year, as per the media statement. The bank currently has 119 branches, 185 ATM booths, and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents spread across the nation. "
2021-01-13,The Interest Rates Just Keep Sliding Down; What This Means for NEPSE,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/the-interest-rates-just-keep-sliding-down-what-this-means-for-nepse-2021-01-13,"The national economy is slowly nursing its wounds after the nationwide pandemic and lockdown that followed. Businesses shut down and economic trade was brought to a halt. As a result, banks and financial institutions saw little to no borrowing from borrowers. Furthermore, since there were no investment opportunities, they simultaneously saw a surge in deposits. What can a bank do if it only has piles of money and no outflow? Reduce interest rates of course. Otherwise, its expense on interest payment will eat up profitability. This is why interest rates fell to record low levels during the pandemic. The economy may have slowly revived and human movement may have resumed, but the interest rates are still falling. Commercial banks are safer than other class institutions to save money. However, it comes at a cost. Commercial banks give the lowest interest rates among financial institutions, followed by development banks. Finally, microfinance institutions give the highest interest rates but they make riskier investments of the savings. Comparison aside, commercial banks have updated their interest rate profile for the month of Magh. The base rates are still decreasing, and depositors get even lesser interest payments on savings and fixed deposits. Here's a quick comparison.     Things are similar with development banks. Their base rates have either fallen or remained constant. The interest payment on savings will be even lesser in the month of Magh. Similarly, depositors depositing their funds on fixed deposits aren't spared either.       The base rates are also declining, both for commercial and development banks. Since the interest rates on loan products are tied to the base rates, this means that such rates have gone down too.      NEPSE's aggressive rise is partially attributed to falling interest rates. As returns on deposits are squeezed, more and more people will be inclined to find alternative investment vehicles. The stock market is the most convenient alternative for such funds. As a result, more money flows to the stock market. As there is more money flow (which can even be quantified by the money flow index), the upward movement of stock prices is exaggerated even more. Does this mean that the bullish sentiment on NEPSE is meant to last longer than anticipated? When will the falling interest rates ever show signs of reversing? Like we all things finance, only time will tell.   The national economy is slowly nursing its wounds after the nationwide pandemic and lockdown that followed. Businesses shut down and economic trade was brought to a halt. As a result, banks and financial institutions saw little to no borrowing from borrowers. Furthermore, since there were no investment opportunities, they simultaneously saw a surge in deposits. What can a bank do if it only has piles of money and no outflow? Reduce interest rates of course. Otherwise, its expense on interest payment will eat up profitability. This is why interest rates fell to record low levels during the pandemic. The economy may have slowly revived and human movement may have resumed, but the interest rates are still falling. Commercial banks are safer than other class institutions to save money. However, it comes at a cost. Commercial banks give the lowest interest rates among financial institutions, followed by development banks. Finally, microfinance institutions give the highest interest rates but they make riskier investments of the savings. Comparison aside, commercial banks have updated their interest rate profile for the month of Magh. The base rates are still decreasing, and depositors get even lesser interest payments on savings and fixed deposits. Here's a quick comparison.     Things are similar with development banks. Their base rates have either fallen or remained constant. The interest payment on savings will be even lesser in the month of Magh. Similarly, depositors depositing their funds on fixed deposits aren't spared either.       The base rates are also declining, both for commercial and development banks. Since the interest rates on loan products are tied to the base rates, this means that such rates have gone down too.      NEPSE's aggressive rise is partially attributed to falling interest rates. As returns on deposits are squeezed, more and more people will be inclined to find alternative investment vehicles. The stock market is the most convenient alternative for such funds. As a result, more money flows to the stock market. As there is more money flow (which can even be quantified by the money flow index), the upward movement of stock prices is exaggerated even more. Does this mean that the bullish sentiment on NEPSE is meant to last longer than anticipated? When will the falling interest rates ever show signs of reversing? Like we all things finance, only time will tell.   The national economy is slowly nursing its wounds after the nationwide pandemic and lockdown that followed. Businesses shut down and economic trade was brought to a halt. As a result, banks and financial institutions saw little to no borrowing from borrowers. Furthermore, since there were no investment opportunities, they simultaneously saw a surge in deposits. What can a bank do if it only has piles of money and no outflow? Reduce interest rates of course. Otherwise, its expense on interest payment will eat up profitability. This is why interest rates fell to record low levels during the pandemic. The economy may have slowly revived and human movement may have resumed, but the interest rates are still falling. Commercial banks are safer than other class institutions to save money. However, it comes at a cost. Commercial banks give the lowest interest rates among financial institutions, followed by development banks. Finally, microfinance institutions give the highest interest rates but they make riskier investments of the savings. Comparison aside, commercial banks have updated their interest rate profile for the month of Magh. The base rates are still decreasing, and depositors get even lesser interest payments on savings and fixed deposits. Here's a quick comparison.     Things are similar with development banks. Their base rates have either fallen or remained constant. The interest payment on savings will be even lesser in the month of Magh. Similarly, depositors depositing their funds on fixed deposits aren't spared either.       The base rates are also declining, both for commercial and development banks. Since the interest rates on loan products are tied to the base rates, this means that such rates have gone down too.      NEPSE's aggressive rise is partially attributed to falling interest rates. As returns on deposits are squeezed, more and more people will be inclined to find alternative investment vehicles. The stock market is the most convenient alternative for such funds. As a result, more money flows to the stock market. As there is more money flow (which can even be quantified by the money flow index), the upward movement of stock prices is exaggerated even more. Does this mean that the bullish sentiment on NEPSE is meant to last longer than anticipated? When will the falling interest rates ever show signs of reversing? Like we all things finance, only time will tell.   "
2021-01-05,Nabil Bank partners with different agencies for public awareness to ensure preparedness and quick response against COVID; to conduct a series of events across 7 big cities,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-partners-with-different-agencies-for-public-awareness-to-ensure-preparedness-and-quick-response-against-covid-to-conduct-a-series-of-events-across-7-big-cities-2021-01-05,"Nabil Bank has partnered with Nepal Government Ministry of Health, Chaudhary Foundation, Asian Disaster Response Centre and NTRC to organize public awareness campaign to ensure preparedness and quick response against further COVID infection.  The first event in the campaign was organized at Hotel Ratna in  Biratnagar which was addressed by expert from MoH Dr. Samir Adhikari, CSR unit head of the bank Mr. Krishna Subedi, province I head of the bank Mr. Subodh Lohani, Country representative of Asian Disaster Response Unit Mr. Man Bahadur Thapa, Chief Operation Officer of Chaudhary Foundation Ms. Merina Ranjit, among others. Nabil Bank has partnered with Nepal Government Ministry of Health, Chaudhary Foundation, Asian Disaster Response Centre and NTRC to organize public awareness campaign to ensure preparedness and quick response against further COVID infection.  The first event in the campaign was organized at Hotel Ratna in  Biratnagar which was addressed by expert from MoH Dr. Samir Adhikari, CSR unit head of the bank Mr. Krishna Subedi, province I head of the bank Mr. Subodh Lohani, Country representative of Asian Disaster Response Unit Mr. Man Bahadur Thapa, Chief Operation Officer of Chaudhary Foundation Ms. Merina Ranjit, among others. Nabil Bank has partnered with Nepal Government Ministry of Health, Chaudhary Foundation, Asian Disaster Response Centre and NTRC to organize public awareness campaign to ensure preparedness and quick response against further COVID infection.  The first event in the campaign was organized at Hotel Ratna in  Biratnagar which was addressed by expert from MoH Dr. Samir Adhikari, CSR unit head of the bank Mr. Krishna Subedi, province I head of the bank Mr. Subodh Lohani, Country representative of Asian Disaster Response Unit Mr. Man Bahadur Thapa, Chief Operation Officer of Chaudhary Foundation Ms. Merina Ranjit, among others. "
2021-01-04,Nabil Bank denounces recent media coverage about alleged solicitation of donation by government officials; urges all stakeholders not to buy in baseless rumors,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-denounces-recent-media-coverage-about-alleged-solicitation-of-donation-by-government-officials-urges-all-stakeholders-not-to-buy-in-baseless-rumors-2021-01-04,"Nabil Bank has issued a media statement to denounce the recent media coverage which claimed that some of the government officials had reached out to the bank seeking donation funds. The  bank claims that those media coverage are baseless, have been covered to tarnish the bank’s image and reiterates that no officials have ever approached the bank with the alleged demands. The bank assures all its investors, shareholders, stakeholders and well wishers about its high integrity and urges everyone not to buy into the baseless rumours, as per the media statement Nabil Bank has issued a media statement to denounce the recent media coverage which claimed that some of the government officials had reached out to the bank seeking donation funds. The  bank claims that those media coverage are baseless, have been covered to tarnish the bank’s image and reiterates that no officials have ever approached the bank with the alleged demands. The bank assures all its investors, shareholders, stakeholders and well wishers about its high integrity and urges everyone not to buy into the baseless rumours, as per the media statement Nabil Bank has issued a media statement to denounce the recent media coverage which claimed that some of the government officials had reached out to the bank seeking donation funds. The  bank claims that those media coverage are baseless, have been covered to tarnish the bank’s image and reiterates that no officials have ever approached the bank with the alleged demands. The bank assures all its investors, shareholders, stakeholders and well wishers about its high integrity and urges everyone not to buy into the baseless rumours, as per the media statement "
2020-12-29,Hurry Up! Your Last Chance to Grab the Dividend of These 11 Companies,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/hurry-up-your-last-chance-to-grab-the-dividend-of-these-9-companies-2020-12-28,"Today is the last day to grab the dividend of the following companies. They have all declared book closure tomorrow, i.e. Poush 15. Thus, investors who can manage to buy the shares of the companies in today's trading session are also entitled to the already-proposed dividend. Furthermore, they will also be allowed to participate in the companies' upcoming AGM.  1) Ngadi Group Power Limited (NGPL) Ngadi Group Power Limited (NGPL) has called the company's 7th AGM on 28th Poush, i.e. January 12. The meeting of the board of directors held on Poush 06 has decided to conduct the AGM in the office of the company registrar in Hanumansthan, Anamnagar, Kathmandu. The AGM will commence at 10 am that day. The company has proposed a 10.526% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. 10% is proposed as bonus shares and 0.526% as a cash dividend. The AGM will endorse the proposal. Furthermore, the 3rd AGM of the company had endorsed the issuance of 30% right shares. However, since the company hasn't issued the right shares yet, this AGM will catch up on the matter. The 7th AGM will propose the issuance of 30% right shares from the paid-up capital. This is the capital maintained after adjustment of the aforementioned 10% bonus shares. The book closure is declared tomorrow, i.e. on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. 2) Manjushree Finance Limited (MFIL) Manjushree Finance Limited (MFIL) has called its AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in the company's central office in New Baneshwor, Kathmandu, starting from 11 am that day. The meeting will be streamed online for investors. Among other agendas, the meeting will elect three board members from the promoters and one from the public investors. Furthermore, the meeting will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 23.5% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 21 has proposed an 18% bonus shares and 5.5% cash dividend from the paid-up capital for the fiscal year 2076/77. Thus, the bonus shares amounting to Rs. 14,72,63,627.46 and cash dividend amounting Rs. 4,49,97,219.50 will be distributed. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. 3) Global IME Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (GILB) Global IME Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (GILB) has called its 8th AGM on Poush 29. The AGM will be organized at Gateway Himalaya Resort, Lamjung, starting at 9 am that day. The AGM will be streamed virtually to investors. Among other proposals, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 28.92% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The 121st meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 28 has proposed a 27.47% bonus shares worth Rs 7,13,09,108 and 1.45% cash dividend worth Rs 37,53,111 (for tax purpose) from the paid-up capital for the fiscal year 2076/77. The paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 25,95,75,125. Furthermore, the AGM will endorse the Share Swap Ratio of 1:0.9 for the acquisition of Sparsha Laghubitta. The book closure for the dividend is announced on Poush 15. Investors maintained before that date are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. 4) Shree Investment Finance Company Limited (SIFC) Shree Investment Finance Company Limited (SIFC) has called its 26th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in the office of the company registrar, Dillibazar, Kathmandu, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 10.53% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The 296th meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 18 has proposed a 7.37% bonus shares and 3.16% cash dividend from the paid-up capital for the fiscal year 2076/77. The dividend will be distributed from the paid-up capital of Rs. 82,90,35,000. Thus, the bonus shares amounting to Rs. 6,10,99,879.50 and cash dividend amounting Rs. 2,61,97,506 will be distributed. Furthermore, the AGM will also approve the amendment of capital (capital adjustment) after the distribution of the bonus share. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 29. 5) Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has called its 14th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be streamed virtually for investors, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 15.7895% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The 853rd meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 29 has decided to distribute 15% bonus shares and 0.7895% cash dividend (for tax purposes) from the paid-up capital. Furthermore, the company has also decided to distribute a 6% cash dividend for Irredeemable Non-cumulative Preference Share. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 29. 6) Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has called its 36th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in the company's central office in Durbarmarg, Kathmandu, starting from 10 am that day. The meeting will be streamed virtually for investors. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The bank has proposed a 35.26% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The bank's 552nd meeting of the board held on Poush 05 has proposed a 1.76% cash dividend for tax purpose and a 33.5% bonus shares from the existing paid-up capital. The paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 10.097 Arba. The AGM will also approve the amendment of capital (capital adjustment) after the distribution of the bonus share and increment of authorized capital to Rs. 14 Arba. Furthermore, 2 board members representing the public investors will be elected. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. 7) Chhimek Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (CBBL) Chhimek Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (CBBL) has called its 19th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in Hotel Samana, Hetauda, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 29% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The 253rd meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 17 has proposed a 22% bonus shares and 7% cash dividend from the paid-up capital for the fiscal year 2076/77. The dividend will be distributed from the paid-up capital of Rs. 1,50,00,00,000. Thus, the bonus shares amounting to Rs. 33,00,00,000 and cash dividend amounting Rs. 10,50,00,000 will be distributed. Furthermore, 2 board members representing the public investors will be elected. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 29. 8) Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) has called its 27th AGM on Poush 28, i.e. January 12. The meeting will be organized in Tribhuwan Army Officers Club, Bhadrakali, Kathmandu, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) has proposed a 9.47% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The 458th meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 04 has decided to distribute 6% of the paid-up capital as bonus shares and 3.47% as a cash dividend. The cash dividend includes the amount for tax purposes as well. The paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 8,95,62,05,554. Furthermore, the AGM will also approve the amendment of capital (capital adjustment) after the distribution of the bonus share. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 28. 9) Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has called its 14th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in the office of the company registrar, Kamaladi, Kathmandu, starting from 10 am that day. The meeting will be streamed virtually for investors. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 16% dividend for the fiscal year 2075/76. 14% will be distributed as bonus shares and 2% as a cash dividend. The AGM will also approve the amendment of capital (capital adjustment) after the distribution of the bonus shares. Furthermore, the meeting will elect 3 board members from promoters and 3 from the public investors. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 29. 10) Womi Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (WOMI) Womi Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (WOMI) has called its 9th AGM on Poush 28, i.e. January 12. The meeting will be organized in Lahari Kharka Party Palace, Banepa-13, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 30% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The meeting of the board of directors has decided to distribute the entirety of the dividend in bonus shares. Furthermore, since the company has already commenced a post-merger joint operation with Nagarik Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited, it is eligible for income tax exemption. Thus, investors do not have to pay the tax this time to get bonus shares. This is also probably why the company has not proposed any cash dividend, not even for tax purposes this time. Furthermore, the AGM will also endorse the Share Swap Ratio for merger determined by the Due Diligence Audit (DDA) and other parameters. Womi Laghubitta signed a Merger Agreement with Grameen Swayamsewak Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha on September 11 this year and its stock trading is in halt. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till that day are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 28. 11) Sparsha Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SPARS) Sparsha Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SPARS) has also called its AGM on Poush 29. The AGM will be organized at Hotel Barahi, Lakeside, Pokhara, starting at 11 am that day.  Among other proposals, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 20.53% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 29 has decided to distribute 19.5% bonus shares and 1.03% cash dividend (for tax purposes) from the paid-up capital. Since the paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 9,37,48,190, the bonus shares amount to Rs. 1,82,80,897 and the cash dividend amounts to Rs. 9,62,152. Furthermore, the AGM will endorse the Share Swap Ratio of 1:0.9 since the company is to be acquired by Global IME Laghubitta.  Since trading of SPARS is halted from Ashwin 21, investors maintained till that date are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Today is the last day to grab the dividend of the following companies. They have all declared book closure tomorrow, i.e. Poush 15. Thus, investors who can manage to buy the shares of the companies in today's trading session are also entitled to the already-proposed dividend. Furthermore, they will also be allowed to participate in the companies' upcoming AGM.  1) Ngadi Group Power Limited (NGPL) Ngadi Group Power Limited (NGPL) has called the company's 7th AGM on 28th Poush, i.e. January 12. The meeting of the board of directors held on Poush 06 has decided to conduct the AGM in the office of the company registrar in Hanumansthan, Anamnagar, Kathmandu. The AGM will commence at 10 am that day. The company has proposed a 10.526% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. 10% is proposed as bonus shares and 0.526% as a cash dividend. The AGM will endorse the proposal. Furthermore, the 3rd AGM of the company had endorsed the issuance of 30% right shares. However, since the company hasn't issued the right shares yet, this AGM will catch up on the matter. The 7th AGM will propose the issuance of 30% right shares from the paid-up capital. This is the capital maintained after adjustment of the aforementioned 10% bonus shares. The book closure is declared tomorrow, i.e. on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. 2) Manjushree Finance Limited (MFIL) Manjushree Finance Limited (MFIL) has called its AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in the company's central office in New Baneshwor, Kathmandu, starting from 11 am that day. The meeting will be streamed online for investors. Among other agendas, the meeting will elect three board members from the promoters and one from the public investors. Furthermore, the meeting will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 23.5% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 21 has proposed an 18% bonus shares and 5.5% cash dividend from the paid-up capital for the fiscal year 2076/77. Thus, the bonus shares amounting to Rs. 14,72,63,627.46 and cash dividend amounting Rs. 4,49,97,219.50 will be distributed. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. 3) Global IME Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (GILB) Global IME Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (GILB) has called its 8th AGM on Poush 29. The AGM will be organized at Gateway Himalaya Resort, Lamjung, starting at 9 am that day. The AGM will be streamed virtually to investors. Among other proposals, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 28.92% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The 121st meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 28 has proposed a 27.47% bonus shares worth Rs 7,13,09,108 and 1.45% cash dividend worth Rs 37,53,111 (for tax purpose) from the paid-up capital for the fiscal year 2076/77. The paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 25,95,75,125. Furthermore, the AGM will endorse the Share Swap Ratio of 1:0.9 for the acquisition of Sparsha Laghubitta. The book closure for the dividend is announced on Poush 15. Investors maintained before that date are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. 4) Shree Investment Finance Company Limited (SIFC) Shree Investment Finance Company Limited (SIFC) has called its 26th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in the office of the company registrar, Dillibazar, Kathmandu, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 10.53% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The 296th meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 18 has proposed a 7.37% bonus shares and 3.16% cash dividend from the paid-up capital for the fiscal year 2076/77. The dividend will be distributed from the paid-up capital of Rs. 82,90,35,000. Thus, the bonus shares amounting to Rs. 6,10,99,879.50 and cash dividend amounting Rs. 2,61,97,506 will be distributed. Furthermore, the AGM will also approve the amendment of capital (capital adjustment) after the distribution of the bonus share. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 29. 5) Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has called its 14th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be streamed virtually for investors, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 15.7895% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The 853rd meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 29 has decided to distribute 15% bonus shares and 0.7895% cash dividend (for tax purposes) from the paid-up capital. Furthermore, the company has also decided to distribute a 6% cash dividend for Irredeemable Non-cumulative Preference Share. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 29. 6) Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has called its 36th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in the company's central office in Durbarmarg, Kathmandu, starting from 10 am that day. The meeting will be streamed virtually for investors. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The bank has proposed a 35.26% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The bank's 552nd meeting of the board held on Poush 05 has proposed a 1.76% cash dividend for tax purpose and a 33.5% bonus shares from the existing paid-up capital. The paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 10.097 Arba. The AGM will also approve the amendment of capital (capital adjustment) after the distribution of the bonus share and increment of authorized capital to Rs. 14 Arba. Furthermore, 2 board members representing the public investors will be elected. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. 7) Chhimek Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (CBBL) Chhimek Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (CBBL) has called its 19th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in Hotel Samana, Hetauda, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 29% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The 253rd meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 17 has proposed a 22% bonus shares and 7% cash dividend from the paid-up capital for the fiscal year 2076/77. The dividend will be distributed from the paid-up capital of Rs. 1,50,00,00,000. Thus, the bonus shares amounting to Rs. 33,00,00,000 and cash dividend amounting Rs. 10,50,00,000 will be distributed. Furthermore, 2 board members representing the public investors will be elected. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 29. 8) Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) has called its 27th AGM on Poush 28, i.e. January 12. The meeting will be organized in Tribhuwan Army Officers Club, Bhadrakali, Kathmandu, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) has proposed a 9.47% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The 458th meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 04 has decided to distribute 6% of the paid-up capital as bonus shares and 3.47% as a cash dividend. The cash dividend includes the amount for tax purposes as well. The paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 8,95,62,05,554. Furthermore, the AGM will also approve the amendment of capital (capital adjustment) after the distribution of the bonus share. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 28. 9) Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has called its 14th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in the office of the company registrar, Kamaladi, Kathmandu, starting from 10 am that day. The meeting will be streamed virtually for investors. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 16% dividend for the fiscal year 2075/76. 14% will be distributed as bonus shares and 2% as a cash dividend. The AGM will also approve the amendment of capital (capital adjustment) after the distribution of the bonus shares. Furthermore, the meeting will elect 3 board members from promoters and 3 from the public investors. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 29. 10) Womi Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (WOMI) Womi Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (WOMI) has called its 9th AGM on Poush 28, i.e. January 12. The meeting will be organized in Lahari Kharka Party Palace, Banepa-13, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 30% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The meeting of the board of directors has decided to distribute the entirety of the dividend in bonus shares. Furthermore, since the company has already commenced a post-merger joint operation with Nagarik Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited, it is eligible for income tax exemption. Thus, investors do not have to pay the tax this time to get bonus shares. This is also probably why the company has not proposed any cash dividend, not even for tax purposes this time. Furthermore, the AGM will also endorse the Share Swap Ratio for merger determined by the Due Diligence Audit (DDA) and other parameters. Womi Laghubitta signed a Merger Agreement with Grameen Swayamsewak Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha on September 11 this year and its stock trading is in halt. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till that day are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 28. 11) Sparsha Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SPARS) Sparsha Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SPARS) has also called its AGM on Poush 29. The AGM will be organized at Hotel Barahi, Lakeside, Pokhara, starting at 11 am that day.  Among other proposals, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 20.53% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 29 has decided to distribute 19.5% bonus shares and 1.03% cash dividend (for tax purposes) from the paid-up capital. Since the paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 9,37,48,190, the bonus shares amount to Rs. 1,82,80,897 and the cash dividend amounts to Rs. 9,62,152. Furthermore, the AGM will endorse the Share Swap Ratio of 1:0.9 since the company is to be acquired by Global IME Laghubitta.  Since trading of SPARS is halted from Ashwin 21, investors maintained till that date are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Today is the last day to grab the dividend of the following companies. They have all declared book closure tomorrow, i.e. Poush 15. Thus, investors who can manage to buy the shares of the companies in today's trading session are also entitled to the already-proposed dividend. Furthermore, they will also be allowed to participate in the companies' upcoming AGM.  1) Ngadi Group Power Limited (NGPL) Ngadi Group Power Limited (NGPL) has called the company's 7th AGM on 28th Poush, i.e. January 12. The meeting of the board of directors held on Poush 06 has decided to conduct the AGM in the office of the company registrar in Hanumansthan, Anamnagar, Kathmandu. The AGM will commence at 10 am that day. The company has proposed a 10.526% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. 10% is proposed as bonus shares and 0.526% as a cash dividend. The AGM will endorse the proposal. Furthermore, the 3rd AGM of the company had endorsed the issuance of 30% right shares. However, since the company hasn't issued the right shares yet, this AGM will catch up on the matter. The 7th AGM will propose the issuance of 30% right shares from the paid-up capital. This is the capital maintained after adjustment of the aforementioned 10% bonus shares. The book closure is declared tomorrow, i.e. on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. 2) Manjushree Finance Limited (MFIL) Manjushree Finance Limited (MFIL) has called its AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in the company's central office in New Baneshwor, Kathmandu, starting from 11 am that day. The meeting will be streamed online for investors. Among other agendas, the meeting will elect three board members from the promoters and one from the public investors. Furthermore, the meeting will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 23.5% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 21 has proposed an 18% bonus shares and 5.5% cash dividend from the paid-up capital for the fiscal year 2076/77. Thus, the bonus shares amounting to Rs. 14,72,63,627.46 and cash dividend amounting Rs. 4,49,97,219.50 will be distributed. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. 3) Global IME Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (GILB) Global IME Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (GILB) has called its 8th AGM on Poush 29. The AGM will be organized at Gateway Himalaya Resort, Lamjung, starting at 9 am that day. The AGM will be streamed virtually to investors. Among other proposals, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 28.92% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The 121st meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 28 has proposed a 27.47% bonus shares worth Rs 7,13,09,108 and 1.45% cash dividend worth Rs 37,53,111 (for tax purpose) from the paid-up capital for the fiscal year 2076/77. The paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 25,95,75,125. Furthermore, the AGM will endorse the Share Swap Ratio of 1:0.9 for the acquisition of Sparsha Laghubitta. The book closure for the dividend is announced on Poush 15. Investors maintained before that date are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. 4) Shree Investment Finance Company Limited (SIFC) Shree Investment Finance Company Limited (SIFC) has called its 26th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in the office of the company registrar, Dillibazar, Kathmandu, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 10.53% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The 296th meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 18 has proposed a 7.37% bonus shares and 3.16% cash dividend from the paid-up capital for the fiscal year 2076/77. The dividend will be distributed from the paid-up capital of Rs. 82,90,35,000. Thus, the bonus shares amounting to Rs. 6,10,99,879.50 and cash dividend amounting Rs. 2,61,97,506 will be distributed. Furthermore, the AGM will also approve the amendment of capital (capital adjustment) after the distribution of the bonus share. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 29. 5) Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has called its 14th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be streamed virtually for investors, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 15.7895% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The 853rd meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 29 has decided to distribute 15% bonus shares and 0.7895% cash dividend (for tax purposes) from the paid-up capital. Furthermore, the company has also decided to distribute a 6% cash dividend for Irredeemable Non-cumulative Preference Share. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 29. 6) Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has called its 36th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in the company's central office in Durbarmarg, Kathmandu, starting from 10 am that day. The meeting will be streamed virtually for investors. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The bank has proposed a 35.26% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The bank's 552nd meeting of the board held on Poush 05 has proposed a 1.76% cash dividend for tax purpose and a 33.5% bonus shares from the existing paid-up capital. The paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 10.097 Arba. The AGM will also approve the amendment of capital (capital adjustment) after the distribution of the bonus share and increment of authorized capital to Rs. 14 Arba. Furthermore, 2 board members representing the public investors will be elected. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. 7) Chhimek Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (CBBL) Chhimek Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (CBBL) has called its 19th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in Hotel Samana, Hetauda, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 29% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The 253rd meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 17 has proposed a 22% bonus shares and 7% cash dividend from the paid-up capital for the fiscal year 2076/77. The dividend will be distributed from the paid-up capital of Rs. 1,50,00,00,000. Thus, the bonus shares amounting to Rs. 33,00,00,000 and cash dividend amounting Rs. 10,50,00,000 will be distributed. Furthermore, 2 board members representing the public investors will be elected. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 29. 8) Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) has called its 27th AGM on Poush 28, i.e. January 12. The meeting will be organized in Tribhuwan Army Officers Club, Bhadrakali, Kathmandu, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) has proposed a 9.47% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The 458th meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 04 has decided to distribute 6% of the paid-up capital as bonus shares and 3.47% as a cash dividend. The cash dividend includes the amount for tax purposes as well. The paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 8,95,62,05,554. Furthermore, the AGM will also approve the amendment of capital (capital adjustment) after the distribution of the bonus share. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 28. 9) Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has called its 14th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in the office of the company registrar, Kamaladi, Kathmandu, starting from 10 am that day. The meeting will be streamed virtually for investors. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 16% dividend for the fiscal year 2075/76. 14% will be distributed as bonus shares and 2% as a cash dividend. The AGM will also approve the amendment of capital (capital adjustment) after the distribution of the bonus shares. Furthermore, the meeting will elect 3 board members from promoters and 3 from the public investors. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till today are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 29. 10) Womi Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (WOMI) Womi Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (WOMI) has called its 9th AGM on Poush 28, i.e. January 12. The meeting will be organized in Lahari Kharka Party Palace, Banepa-13, starting from 11 am that day. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 30% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The meeting of the board of directors has decided to distribute the entirety of the dividend in bonus shares. Furthermore, since the company has already commenced a post-merger joint operation with Nagarik Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited, it is eligible for income tax exemption. Thus, investors do not have to pay the tax this time to get bonus shares. This is also probably why the company has not proposed any cash dividend, not even for tax purposes this time. Furthermore, the AGM will also endorse the Share Swap Ratio for merger determined by the Due Diligence Audit (DDA) and other parameters. Womi Laghubitta signed a Merger Agreement with Grameen Swayamsewak Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha on September 11 this year and its stock trading is in halt. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till that day are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. Books will be closed from Poush 15 to Poush 28. 11) Sparsha Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SPARS) Sparsha Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SPARS) has also called its AGM on Poush 29. The AGM will be organized at Hotel Barahi, Lakeside, Pokhara, starting at 11 am that day.  Among other proposals, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The company has proposed a 20.53% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The meeting of the board of directors held on Mangsir 29 has decided to distribute 19.5% bonus shares and 1.03% cash dividend (for tax purposes) from the paid-up capital. Since the paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 9,37,48,190, the bonus shares amount to Rs. 1,82,80,897 and the cash dividend amounts to Rs. 9,62,152. Furthermore, the AGM will endorse the Share Swap Ratio of 1:0.9 since the company is to be acquired by Global IME Laghubitta.  Since trading of SPARS is halted from Ashwin 21, investors maintained till that date are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. "
2020-12-24,Nabil Bank to promote entrepreneurship among local farmers in far western hills; inks MoU with local units in Doti and Baitadi,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-promote-entrepreneurship-among-local-farmers-in-far-western-hills-inks-mou-with-local-units-in-doti-and-baitadi-2020-12-24,"Nabil Bank and Sayal Gaupalika of Doti and Pancheswor Gaupalika of Baitadi have entered into an agreement to provide subsidized loans to the skilled farmers belonging to the local units. The MoU was signed between Sudurpashim province head of the bank Mr. Dikendra Chand and head of Sayal Gaupalika Mr. Tej Bahadur Dumrel and head of Pancheswor Gaupalika Mr. Gorakh Bahadur Chand amid a program.  Following this understanding, the bank will extend a subsidized credit facility to the skilled human resource from the local units who approach the bank after receiving a forwarded recommendation from their respective palikas, as per the media statement. The bank currently serves its customers from its 119 branches, 185 ATM booths, and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents located throughout the nation. Nabil Bank and Sayal Gaupalika of Doti and Pancheswor Gaupalika of Baitadi have entered into an agreement to provide subsidized loans to the skilled farmers belonging to the local units. The MoU was signed between Sudurpashim province head of the bank Mr. Dikendra Chand and head of Sayal Gaupalika Mr. Tej Bahadur Dumrel and head of Pancheswor Gaupalika Mr. Gorakh Bahadur Chand amid a program.  Following this understanding, the bank will extend a subsidized credit facility to the skilled human resource from the local units who approach the bank after receiving a forwarded recommendation from their respective palikas, as per the media statement. The bank currently serves its customers from its 119 branches, 185 ATM booths, and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents located throughout the nation. Nabil Bank and Sayal Gaupalika of Doti and Pancheswor Gaupalika of Baitadi have entered into an agreement to provide subsidized loans to the skilled farmers belonging to the local units. The MoU was signed between Sudurpashim province head of the bank Mr. Dikendra Chand and head of Sayal Gaupalika Mr. Tej Bahadur Dumrel and head of Pancheswor Gaupalika Mr. Gorakh Bahadur Chand amid a program.  Following this understanding, the bank will extend a subsidized credit facility to the skilled human resource from the local units who approach the bank after receiving a forwarded recommendation from their respective palikas, as per the media statement. The bank currently serves its customers from its 119 branches, 185 ATM booths, and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents located throughout the nation. "
2020-12-23,Nabil Bank (NABIL) calls AGM on Poush 29; When's the book closure for 35.26% Dividend?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-nabil-calls-agm-on-poush-29-whens-the-book-closure-for-3526-dividend-2020-12-23,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has called its 36th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in the company's central office in Durbarmarg, Kathmandu, starting from 10 am that day. The meeting will be streamed virtually for investors. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The bank has proposed a 35.26% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The bank's 552nd meeting of the board held on Poush 05 has proposed a 1.76% cash dividend for tax purpose and a 33.5% bonus shares from the existing paid-up capital. The paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 10.097 Arba. The AGM will also approve the amendment of capital (capital adjustment) after the distribution of the bonus share and increment of authorized capital to Rs. 14 Arba. Furthermore, 2 board members representing the public investors will be elected. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till that day are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. AGM notice Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has called its 36th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in the company's central office in Durbarmarg, Kathmandu, starting from 10 am that day. The meeting will be streamed virtually for investors. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The bank has proposed a 35.26% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The bank's 552nd meeting of the board held on Poush 05 has proposed a 1.76% cash dividend for tax purpose and a 33.5% bonus shares from the existing paid-up capital. The paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 10.097 Arba. The AGM will also approve the amendment of capital (capital adjustment) after the distribution of the bonus share and increment of authorized capital to Rs. 14 Arba. Furthermore, 2 board members representing the public investors will be elected. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till that day are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. AGM notice Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has called its 36th AGM on Poush 29, i.e. January 13. The meeting will be organized in the company's central office in Durbarmarg, Kathmandu, starting from 10 am that day. The meeting will be streamed virtually for investors. Among other agendas, the AGM will endorse the dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The bank has proposed a 35.26% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The bank's 552nd meeting of the board held on Poush 05 has proposed a 1.76% cash dividend for tax purpose and a 33.5% bonus shares from the existing paid-up capital. The paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 10.097 Arba. The AGM will also approve the amendment of capital (capital adjustment) after the distribution of the bonus share and increment of authorized capital to Rs. 14 Arba. Furthermore, 2 board members representing the public investors will be elected. The book closure date is announced on Poush 15. Thus, investors maintained till that day are entitled to the dividend payout and can also attend the AGM. AGM notice "
2020-12-22,Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) Proposes 35.26% Dividend for FY 2076/77; How much in bonus shares and cash?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-nabil-proposes-3526-dividend-for-fy-207677-how-much-in-bonus-shares-and-cash-2020-12-22,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has proposed a 35.26% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The bank's 552th meeting of the board held on Poush 05 has proposed a 1.76% cash dividend for tax purpose and a 33.5% bonus shares from the existing paid-up capital. The paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 10.097 arba. This decision is subject to approval from the NRB after which it will be endorsed in the AGM of the bank. As of writing, the LTP of the bank stands at Rs. 1231. Dividend History:  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has proposed a 35.26% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The bank's 552th meeting of the board held on Poush 05 has proposed a 1.76% cash dividend for tax purpose and a 33.5% bonus shares from the existing paid-up capital. The paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 10.097 arba. This decision is subject to approval from the NRB after which it will be endorsed in the AGM of the bank. As of writing, the LTP of the bank stands at Rs. 1231. Dividend History:  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has proposed a 35.26% dividend for the fiscal year 2076/77. The bank's 552th meeting of the board held on Poush 05 has proposed a 1.76% cash dividend for tax purpose and a 33.5% bonus shares from the existing paid-up capital. The paid-up capital of the company is Rs. 10.097 arba. This decision is subject to approval from the NRB after which it will be endorsed in the AGM of the bank. As of writing, the LTP of the bank stands at Rs. 1231. Dividend History:  "
2020-12-16,Banks Update Interest Rates; Base Rates Falling; How will this Affect the Stock Market?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/banks-revise-interest-rates-base-rates-declining-how-will-this-affect-the-stock-market-2020-12-15,"Compliant to NRB's instruction to only update interest rates once a month, a lot of banks/financial institutions have updated their interest rates today. The update will be effective from today, the first day of the month of Poush. The rise in the NEPSE index is partly fueled by the slashing interest rates caused by excess liquidity. Thus, the fluctuation in interest rates is of interest to investors. In general, a fall in interest rates is followed by a rise in the securities market. This was also evident in the trend of the NEPSE as banks began to cut interest rates during the Covid-19 pandemic. In this article, we analyze the change in interest rates of commercial banks. Those who did not bring any significant change to their interest rates profile are ignored in this study. In the review of the first quarter of FY 2077/78, the Nepal Rastra Bank had brought a new provision with hopes that banks will reverse the falling trend in interest rates.  The provision was that banks are not allowed to have a difference of more than 5 units in the interest rate range that they provide. For instance, if a bank gives an 8% interest payment on fixed deposits, it can't give interest lower than 3% in other savings schemes. However, this isn't applicable to call deposits.  Since banks have been giving higher interest payments on fixed deposits, the central bank hoped that they would raise the interest rates on savings. However, banks seem to have done the exact opposite. They have now lowered their interest rates on fixed deposits instead of raising the rates on savings.  Since a significant portion of cash is saved in banks as fixed deposits, many investors speculate this pool of money might be poured into the stock market in hopes of more attractive returns. Now, this might happen directly from the depositors or indirectly from institutions. Nonetheless, supposing that the recent rise in NEPSE is attributed to falling interest rates, this new scenario might become an extra source of fuel to the fire.  While Mega Bank Limited (MEGA) previously gave interest payment in the range of 3-5% p.a. for savings, the bank has reduced this range to 2.5-4.5%. The range is 2.5-4.5% for Century Commercial Bank too. Nepal SBI Bank has also followed suit to further reduce the interest rate on savings. It now only provides interest payment in the range of 1.5-3%, compared to the previous range of 3-4.5%. The banking giant Nabil Bank also provides a low interest-range of 1.5-3.5%. For savings, Sunrise Bank and Bank of Kathmandu give interest payments in the range of 2-3.5% depending on the savings scheme while Nepal Bank Limited gives in the range of 2-4%. Now, an individual depositing their money in fixed deposits in Mega Bank will get interest payment in the range of 6.5-7.5%. Meanwhile, they will get interest payments in the range of 3-6.5% in Nepal SBI Bank. The interest payment depends on the maturity period of the fixed deposits. Except in a few circumstances, fixed deposits with a longer maturity period generate a higher interest per annum. At Sunrise Bank, depositors will get a flat 7% interest payments per annum for fixed deposits with a maturity period of three months or higher. In Nepal Bank Limited, the highest interest rate on FDs is 7% and the lowest is 5.5%. Prime Commercial Bank, on the other hand, will give an 8% interest payment per annum for all fixed deposits with a maturity period longer than a year. While some commercial banks tie their margin loan interest rates with the base rate, some mention a numeric range. For instance, margin loans will be provided at anywhere from 0-4.5% interest rates in Mega Bank Limited. Nepal Bank Limited also gives margin loans in the interest rate range of 2.05-5.02%. Meanwhile, in Nepal SBI Bank, the interest rate can get up to 5% higher than the bank's base rate of 8.37%. The base rate has declined in the case of Nepal SBI Bank. It previously had a base rate of 8.39%. This is also the case with Sunrise Bank and Global IME Bank where the interest rate on margin loans can get up to 6% higher than their respective base rates. It is worth mentioning that Sunrise Bank's base rate has been slashed to 7.51% from the previous figure of 7.8%. Meanwhile, Global IME Bank's base rate stands at 7.25%. Century Commercial Bank has also followed suit in the interest rates slashing trend. While it previously had a base rate of 8.68%, the figure is now brought down to 8.43%. The base rate of the Bank of Kathmandu has fallen down a tiny bit to 7.68% from the previous 7.7%. Furthermore, the banking giant Nabil Bank has also reduced its base rate to 6.37% from the previously maintained figure at 6.74%. Compliant to NRB's instruction to only update interest rates once a month, a lot of banks/financial institutions have updated their interest rates today. The update will be effective from today, the first day of the month of Poush. The rise in the NEPSE index is partly fueled by the slashing interest rates caused by excess liquidity. Thus, the fluctuation in interest rates is of interest to investors. In general, a fall in interest rates is followed by a rise in the securities market. This was also evident in the trend of the NEPSE as banks began to cut interest rates during the Covid-19 pandemic. In this article, we analyze the change in interest rates of commercial banks. Those who did not bring any significant change to their interest rates profile are ignored in this study. In the review of the first quarter of FY 2077/78, the Nepal Rastra Bank had brought a new provision with hopes that banks will reverse the falling trend in interest rates.  The provision was that banks are not allowed to have a difference of more than 5 units in the interest rate range that they provide. For instance, if a bank gives an 8% interest payment on fixed deposits, it can't give interest lower than 3% in other savings schemes. However, this isn't applicable to call deposits.  Since banks have been giving higher interest payments on fixed deposits, the central bank hoped that they would raise the interest rates on savings. However, banks seem to have done the exact opposite. They have now lowered their interest rates on fixed deposits instead of raising the rates on savings.  Since a significant portion of cash is saved in banks as fixed deposits, many investors speculate this pool of money might be poured into the stock market in hopes of more attractive returns. Now, this might happen directly from the depositors or indirectly from institutions. Nonetheless, supposing that the recent rise in NEPSE is attributed to falling interest rates, this new scenario might become an extra source of fuel to the fire.  While Mega Bank Limited (MEGA) previously gave interest payment in the range of 3-5% p.a. for savings, the bank has reduced this range to 2.5-4.5%. The range is 2.5-4.5% for Century Commercial Bank too. Nepal SBI Bank has also followed suit to further reduce the interest rate on savings. It now only provides interest payment in the range of 1.5-3%, compared to the previous range of 3-4.5%. The banking giant Nabil Bank also provides a low interest-range of 1.5-3.5%. For savings, Sunrise Bank and Bank of Kathmandu give interest payments in the range of 2-3.5% depending on the savings scheme while Nepal Bank Limited gives in the range of 2-4%. Now, an individual depositing their money in fixed deposits in Mega Bank will get interest payment in the range of 6.5-7.5%. Meanwhile, they will get interest payments in the range of 3-6.5% in Nepal SBI Bank. The interest payment depends on the maturity period of the fixed deposits. Except in a few circumstances, fixed deposits with a longer maturity period generate a higher interest per annum. At Sunrise Bank, depositors will get a flat 7% interest payments per annum for fixed deposits with a maturity period of three months or higher. In Nepal Bank Limited, the highest interest rate on FDs is 7% and the lowest is 5.5%. Prime Commercial Bank, on the other hand, will give an 8% interest payment per annum for all fixed deposits with a maturity period longer than a year. While some commercial banks tie their margin loan interest rates with the base rate, some mention a numeric range. For instance, margin loans will be provided at anywhere from 0-4.5% interest rates in Mega Bank Limited. Nepal Bank Limited also gives margin loans in the interest rate range of 2.05-5.02%. Meanwhile, in Nepal SBI Bank, the interest rate can get up to 5% higher than the bank's base rate of 8.37%. The base rate has declined in the case of Nepal SBI Bank. It previously had a base rate of 8.39%. This is also the case with Sunrise Bank and Global IME Bank where the interest rate on margin loans can get up to 6% higher than their respective base rates. It is worth mentioning that Sunrise Bank's base rate has been slashed to 7.51% from the previous figure of 7.8%. Meanwhile, Global IME Bank's base rate stands at 7.25%. Century Commercial Bank has also followed suit in the interest rates slashing trend. While it previously had a base rate of 8.68%, the figure is now brought down to 8.43%. The base rate of the Bank of Kathmandu has fallen down a tiny bit to 7.68% from the previous 7.7%. Furthermore, the banking giant Nabil Bank has also reduced its base rate to 6.37% from the previously maintained figure at 6.74%. Compliant to NRB's instruction to only update interest rates once a month, a lot of banks/financial institutions have updated their interest rates today. The update will be effective from today, the first day of the month of Poush. The rise in the NEPSE index is partly fueled by the slashing interest rates caused by excess liquidity. Thus, the fluctuation in interest rates is of interest to investors. In general, a fall in interest rates is followed by a rise in the securities market. This was also evident in the trend of the NEPSE as banks began to cut interest rates during the Covid-19 pandemic. In this article, we analyze the change in interest rates of commercial banks. Those who did not bring any significant change to their interest rates profile are ignored in this study. In the review of the first quarter of FY 2077/78, the Nepal Rastra Bank had brought a new provision with hopes that banks will reverse the falling trend in interest rates.  The provision was that banks are not allowed to have a difference of more than 5 units in the interest rate range that they provide. For instance, if a bank gives an 8% interest payment on fixed deposits, it can't give interest lower than 3% in other savings schemes. However, this isn't applicable to call deposits.  Since banks have been giving higher interest payments on fixed deposits, the central bank hoped that they would raise the interest rates on savings. However, banks seem to have done the exact opposite. They have now lowered their interest rates on fixed deposits instead of raising the rates on savings.  Since a significant portion of cash is saved in banks as fixed deposits, many investors speculate this pool of money might be poured into the stock market in hopes of more attractive returns. Now, this might happen directly from the depositors or indirectly from institutions. Nonetheless, supposing that the recent rise in NEPSE is attributed to falling interest rates, this new scenario might become an extra source of fuel to the fire.  While Mega Bank Limited (MEGA) previously gave interest payment in the range of 3-5% p.a. for savings, the bank has reduced this range to 2.5-4.5%. The range is 2.5-4.5% for Century Commercial Bank too. Nepal SBI Bank has also followed suit to further reduce the interest rate on savings. It now only provides interest payment in the range of 1.5-3%, compared to the previous range of 3-4.5%. The banking giant Nabil Bank also provides a low interest-range of 1.5-3.5%. For savings, Sunrise Bank and Bank of Kathmandu give interest payments in the range of 2-3.5% depending on the savings scheme while Nepal Bank Limited gives in the range of 2-4%. Now, an individual depositing their money in fixed deposits in Mega Bank will get interest payment in the range of 6.5-7.5%. Meanwhile, they will get interest payments in the range of 3-6.5% in Nepal SBI Bank. The interest payment depends on the maturity period of the fixed deposits. Except in a few circumstances, fixed deposits with a longer maturity period generate a higher interest per annum. At Sunrise Bank, depositors will get a flat 7% interest payments per annum for fixed deposits with a maturity period of three months or higher. In Nepal Bank Limited, the highest interest rate on FDs is 7% and the lowest is 5.5%. Prime Commercial Bank, on the other hand, will give an 8% interest payment per annum for all fixed deposits with a maturity period longer than a year. While some commercial banks tie their margin loan interest rates with the base rate, some mention a numeric range. For instance, margin loans will be provided at anywhere from 0-4.5% interest rates in Mega Bank Limited. Nepal Bank Limited also gives margin loans in the interest rate range of 2.05-5.02%. Meanwhile, in Nepal SBI Bank, the interest rate can get up to 5% higher than the bank's base rate of 8.37%. The base rate has declined in the case of Nepal SBI Bank. It previously had a base rate of 8.39%. This is also the case with Sunrise Bank and Global IME Bank where the interest rate on margin loans can get up to 6% higher than their respective base rates. It is worth mentioning that Sunrise Bank's base rate has been slashed to 7.51% from the previous figure of 7.8%. Meanwhile, Global IME Bank's base rate stands at 7.25%. Century Commercial Bank has also followed suit in the interest rates slashing trend. While it previously had a base rate of 8.68%, the figure is now brought down to 8.43%. The base rate of the Bank of Kathmandu has fallen down a tiny bit to 7.68% from the previous 7.7%. Furthermore, the banking giant Nabil Bank has also reduced its base rate to 6.37% from the previously maintained figure at 6.74%. "
2020-12-10,Are you thinking to invest in Nabil Bank Limited ? Know in detail about its financial performance,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-company-analysis-2020-12-03," Company Information: Nabil Bank Limited is the first private-sector class “A” commercial bank in Nepal, commencing its business in July 1984. Nabil Bank Limited started off as a joint venture with Emirates Bank International forming Nabil Arab Bank Limited. Later bank divested its stake in Nabil which was ultimately taken over by NB International. The name was changed to Nabil Bank, following the withdrawal of its joint venture partner. The bank is promoted by NB International, Ireland (50%) and Rastriya Beema Sanstha (9.67%), and Chaudhary Group with a majority stake of 53%. The bank has a presence in all the provinces through 119 branches and 185 ATM booths.      Financial Highlights:    The increasing reserve suggests that the company has been profitable throughout the period. Nabil Bank Limited has been able to increase its reserves and surplus Y-O-Y which has increased the shareholders’ value at a CAGR of 2.5% for over 4 years time period. The reserve can be used by the company for its expansion or allocating the money in profitable investment which in turn will increase the return on equity. In the first quarter of FY 2077/2078, the company reported an ROE of 15.36%.  In terms of deposit mix, term deposit covered about 39.85% of total deposit which was 31.91% in 2018, saving deposit covered about 30.60% which was 32.74% in 2018. Similarly, the current deposit and Call deposit covered 11.03% and 17.42% respectively as of FY 2019. The increment in term deposits has contributed to the higher cost of funds in 2019. When we look at the past trends of the CASA Ratio of Nabil Bank, we could see that the ratio has declined for the last 3 years from 60% in 2017 to 45% in 2019. If we observe the whole banking industry, the average CASA Ratio stood at 41% while Nabil Bank’s CASA stood at 45%. As of Q1 of FY 2077/2078, the company had a market share of 5.54% in terms of deposit with a total of Rs. 1.96 Kharba of deposit.  As per the first quarter of FY 2077/2078, Nabil Bank Limited had a market share of 5.42% with a total loan disbursement of 1.57 Kharba. For the last 4 years, the company has increased its loans and advances by CAGR 13.32%. The loan book is comprised of working capital loans of 34.04% which was 30.48% in the previous year and term loans of 15.53% in the year 2019.  Net Interest Income of the company which is a core business revenue has increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 6.15% for the last 4 years. In the fourth quarter of FY 2076/2077, the net interest income of the company declined as compared to the previous year because of the low-interest-rate environment in the country as a relief for the borrowers. During the lockdown period, the banking industry had excess liquidity but there were no borrowers during the time due to lockdown. This led the bank to have a bit higher cost of funds compared to what they were earning.  Before the pandemic hit the economy, the bank had been increasing its net profit at a compounded annual growth rate of 38%. The company had a healthy margin above 40%. Looking at the efficiency of the company, they had a healthy efficiency between 19%-22% till FY 2019. The bank has also a sizable amount of fees and commission income which stabilizes the operating profit. However, the bank had to set aside a huge amount of provision for possible bad debts in Q4, 2076/2077 which has impacted its profitability. Key Parameters: (*EPS is calculated on an annualized basis)  Net Interest Margin is a ratio to measure how much a company earned from loans and advances after paying the cost to the depositors. While in the Q4 of FY 2076/2077, the company reported its NIM of 4.7%, the company had a healthy NIM of above 5% for the last 5 years. This is mainly because of the management’s ability to operate under a lower cost of fund environment for an extended period of time. The deposit mix of the company highly affects the NIM because if the company has a higher amount of depositor’s money in a high-cost account, then the company has to bear a higher cost of funds. In terms of Nabil Bank, higher loan/deposit has enabled the company to have a cushion against the rising cost because of increased competition which has maintained the NIM.  In terms of earnings per share, it has been in decline order because of increasing shares outstanding. Despite the increase in net profit, it has not aligned with the increasing pace of shares outstanding. However, the earning of the company is above the industry average.  The underwriting skills of the management are without a doubt very much efficient. The growth the company had and the disbursement of loans could have been in question but the management has been able to maintain their non-performing loan below 1 for the last 5 years. Dividend History: Wrapping Up: Nepal being in a developing phase there is a huge demand for loans from SME’s or large corporate house, industry as a whole has huge growth potential in the coming years. In terms of Nabil bank Limited, it has already been able to maintain its market share above 5% in credit base and the customer’s perception towards the bank is a plus point to the company in years to come. Healthy margins, organic growth, effective utilization of shareholders money, reporting ROE of more than 15% and ROA of more than 2% and efficient underwriting of the company has shown that it stands out from its competitor in the industry. The competitiveness of the bank to keep its cost of funds lower than 5% for the last 3 years despite unhealthy competition has been a key factor for its increasing profitability. However, the current economic scenario has posed a different situation for the banking industry and it is crucial for investors to look at what strategies will the management adopt to maintain their competitiveness without harming much of the shareholders’ value in the years to come.      Company Information: Nabil Bank Limited is the first private-sector class “A” commercial bank in Nepal, commencing its business in July 1984. Nabil Bank Limited started off as a joint venture with Emirates Bank International forming Nabil Arab Bank Limited. Later bank divested its stake in Nabil which was ultimately taken over by NB International. The name was changed to Nabil Bank, following the withdrawal of its joint venture partner. The bank is promoted by NB International, Ireland (50%) and Rastriya Beema Sanstha (9.67%), and Chaudhary Group with a majority stake of 53%. The bank has a presence in all the provinces through 119 branches and 185 ATM booths.      Financial Highlights:    The increasing reserve suggests that the company has been profitable throughout the period. Nabil Bank Limited has been able to increase its reserves and surplus Y-O-Y which has increased the shareholders’ value at a CAGR of 2.5% for over 4 years time period. The reserve can be used by the company for its expansion or allocating the money in profitable investment which in turn will increase the return on equity. In the first quarter of FY 2077/2078, the company reported an ROE of 15.36%.  In terms of deposit mix, term deposit covered about 39.85% of total deposit which was 31.91% in 2018, saving deposit covered about 30.60% which was 32.74% in 2018. Similarly, the current deposit and Call deposit covered 11.03% and 17.42% respectively as of FY 2019. The increment in term deposits has contributed to the higher cost of funds in 2019. When we look at the past trends of the CASA Ratio of Nabil Bank, we could see that the ratio has declined for the last 3 years from 60% in 2017 to 45% in 2019. If we observe the whole banking industry, the average CASA Ratio stood at 41% while Nabil Bank’s CASA stood at 45%. As of Q1 of FY 2077/2078, the company had a market share of 5.54% in terms of deposit with a total of Rs. 1.96 Kharba of deposit.  As per the first quarter of FY 2077/2078, Nabil Bank Limited had a market share of 5.42% with a total loan disbursement of 1.57 Kharba. For the last 4 years, the company has increased its loans and advances by CAGR 13.32%. The loan book is comprised of working capital loans of 34.04% which was 30.48% in the previous year and term loans of 15.53% in the year 2019.  Net Interest Income of the company which is a core business revenue has increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 6.15% for the last 4 years. In the fourth quarter of FY 2076/2077, the net interest income of the company declined as compared to the previous year because of the low-interest-rate environment in the country as a relief for the borrowers. During the lockdown period, the banking industry had excess liquidity but there were no borrowers during the time due to lockdown. This led the bank to have a bit higher cost of funds compared to what they were earning.  Before the pandemic hit the economy, the bank had been increasing its net profit at a compounded annual growth rate of 38%. The company had a healthy margin above 40%. Looking at the efficiency of the company, they had a healthy efficiency between 19%-22% till FY 2019. The bank has also a sizable amount of fees and commission income which stabilizes the operating profit. However, the bank had to set aside a huge amount of provision for possible bad debts in Q4, 2076/2077 which has impacted its profitability. Key Parameters: (*EPS is calculated on an annualized basis)  Net Interest Margin is a ratio to measure how much a company earned from loans and advances after paying the cost to the depositors. While in the Q4 of FY 2076/2077, the company reported its NIM of 4.7%, the company had a healthy NIM of above 5% for the last 5 years. This is mainly because of the management’s ability to operate under a lower cost of fund environment for an extended period of time. The deposit mix of the company highly affects the NIM because if the company has a higher amount of depositor’s money in a high-cost account, then the company has to bear a higher cost of funds. In terms of Nabil Bank, higher loan/deposit has enabled the company to have a cushion against the rising cost because of increased competition which has maintained the NIM.  In terms of earnings per share, it has been in decline order because of increasing shares outstanding. Despite the increase in net profit, it has not aligned with the increasing pace of shares outstanding. However, the earning of the company is above the industry average.  The underwriting skills of the management are without a doubt very much efficient. The growth the company had and the disbursement of loans could have been in question but the management has been able to maintain their non-performing loan below 1 for the last 5 years. Dividend History: Wrapping Up: Nepal being in a developing phase there is a huge demand for loans from SME’s or large corporate house, industry as a whole has huge growth potential in the coming years. In terms of Nabil bank Limited, it has already been able to maintain its market share above 5% in credit base and the customer’s perception towards the bank is a plus point to the company in years to come. Healthy margins, organic growth, effective utilization of shareholders money, reporting ROE of more than 15% and ROA of more than 2% and efficient underwriting of the company has shown that it stands out from its competitor in the industry. The competitiveness of the bank to keep its cost of funds lower than 5% for the last 3 years despite unhealthy competition has been a key factor for its increasing profitability. However, the current economic scenario has posed a different situation for the banking industry and it is crucial for investors to look at what strategies will the management adopt to maintain their competitiveness without harming much of the shareholders’ value in the years to come.      Company Information: Nabil Bank Limited is the first private-sector class “A” commercial bank in Nepal, commencing its business in July 1984. Nabil Bank Limited started off as a joint venture with Emirates Bank International forming Nabil Arab Bank Limited. Later bank divested its stake in Nabil which was ultimately taken over by NB International. The name was changed to Nabil Bank, following the withdrawal of its joint venture partner. The bank is promoted by NB International, Ireland (50%) and Rastriya Beema Sanstha (9.67%), and Chaudhary Group with a majority stake of 53%. The bank has a presence in all the provinces through 119 branches and 185 ATM booths.      Financial Highlights:    The increasing reserve suggests that the company has been profitable throughout the period. Nabil Bank Limited has been able to increase its reserves and surplus Y-O-Y which has increased the shareholders’ value at a CAGR of 2.5% for over 4 years time period. The reserve can be used by the company for its expansion or allocating the money in profitable investment which in turn will increase the return on equity. In the first quarter of FY 2077/2078, the company reported an ROE of 15.36%.  In terms of deposit mix, term deposit covered about 39.85% of total deposit which was 31.91% in 2018, saving deposit covered about 30.60% which was 32.74% in 2018. Similarly, the current deposit and Call deposit covered 11.03% and 17.42% respectively as of FY 2019. The increment in term deposits has contributed to the higher cost of funds in 2019. When we look at the past trends of the CASA Ratio of Nabil Bank, we could see that the ratio has declined for the last 3 years from 60% in 2017 to 45% in 2019. If we observe the whole banking industry, the average CASA Ratio stood at 41% while Nabil Bank’s CASA stood at 45%. As of Q1 of FY 2077/2078, the company had a market share of 5.54% in terms of deposit with a total of Rs. 1.96 Kharba of deposit.  As per the first quarter of FY 2077/2078, Nabil Bank Limited had a market share of 5.42% with a total loan disbursement of 1.57 Kharba. For the last 4 years, the company has increased its loans and advances by CAGR 13.32%. The loan book is comprised of working capital loans of 34.04% which was 30.48% in the previous year and term loans of 15.53% in the year 2019.  Net Interest Income of the company which is a core business revenue has increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 6.15% for the last 4 years. In the fourth quarter of FY 2076/2077, the net interest income of the company declined as compared to the previous year because of the low-interest-rate environment in the country as a relief for the borrowers. During the lockdown period, the banking industry had excess liquidity but there were no borrowers during the time due to lockdown. This led the bank to have a bit higher cost of funds compared to what they were earning.  Before the pandemic hit the economy, the bank had been increasing its net profit at a compounded annual growth rate of 38%. The company had a healthy margin above 40%. Looking at the efficiency of the company, they had a healthy efficiency between 19%-22% till FY 2019. The bank has also a sizable amount of fees and commission income which stabilizes the operating profit. However, the bank had to set aside a huge amount of provision for possible bad debts in Q4, 2076/2077 which has impacted its profitability. Key Parameters: (*EPS is calculated on an annualized basis)  Net Interest Margin is a ratio to measure how much a company earned from loans and advances after paying the cost to the depositors. While in the Q4 of FY 2076/2077, the company reported its NIM of 4.7%, the company had a healthy NIM of above 5% for the last 5 years. This is mainly because of the management’s ability to operate under a lower cost of fund environment for an extended period of time. The deposit mix of the company highly affects the NIM because if the company has a higher amount of depositor’s money in a high-cost account, then the company has to bear a higher cost of funds. In terms of Nabil Bank, higher loan/deposit has enabled the company to have a cushion against the rising cost because of increased competition which has maintained the NIM.  In terms of earnings per share, it has been in decline order because of increasing shares outstanding. Despite the increase in net profit, it has not aligned with the increasing pace of shares outstanding. However, the earning of the company is above the industry average.  The underwriting skills of the management are without a doubt very much efficient. The growth the company had and the disbursement of loans could have been in question but the management has been able to maintain their non-performing loan below 1 for the last 5 years. Dividend History: Wrapping Up: Nepal being in a developing phase there is a huge demand for loans from SME’s or large corporate house, industry as a whole has huge growth potential in the coming years. In terms of Nabil bank Limited, it has already been able to maintain its market share above 5% in credit base and the customer’s perception towards the bank is a plus point to the company in years to come. Healthy margins, organic growth, effective utilization of shareholders money, reporting ROE of more than 15% and ROA of more than 2% and efficient underwriting of the company has shown that it stands out from its competitor in the industry. The competitiveness of the bank to keep its cost of funds lower than 5% for the last 3 years despite unhealthy competition has been a key factor for its increasing profitability. However, the current economic scenario has posed a different situation for the banking industry and it is crucial for investors to look at what strategies will the management adopt to maintain their competitiveness without harming much of the shareholders’ value in the years to come.     "
2020-12-09,Having confusion in using valuation ratios for financial institutions? Here's how you can connect the dots between ratios for investment decision,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/having-confusion-in-using-valuation-ratios-for-financial-institutions-heres-how-you-can-connect-dots-between-ratios-for-investment-decision-2020-12-08,"When there are lots of ticker symbols to choose from while investing, investors tend to adopt the habit of asking for a tip from the experienced investor as to which company will be the next hot stock which itself is not bad. That is because choosing from all those options comes at a cost for new investors. They have to sacrifice their precious time and energy into selecting the stock. But the sad part is, the investor still lags the analytical skill even after getting a tip which makes them their own greatest enemy in the stock market. In terms of the Nepalese stock market, more than 250 companies are being traded currently, and Financial institutions make up about 80% of the total market. There are Commercial Banks, Development Banks, Finance, and Microfinance companies to choose from. So, today we will focus on one of the valuation metrics which will allow investors to shortlist the cheap stocks in less time. It is without a doubt that financial institutions are relatively confusing and challenging to value even for skilled analysts. That is because, financial institutions unlike any other business have different business models i.e., collecting the deposit from its customers and lending out the money to their borrowers. But it doesn’t mean that it is not easy. Warren Buffet in one of his shareholder's meetings said that we should value banks like we value any other stock. So, from all the metrics that we use to value other stocks which metric can we use to value banks? The answer is the Price to Book Ratio. But here’s the catch, Price to Book should always be compared to what the company is earning on its book which is measured by Return on Equity (ROE). This is because, when we are using the P/B ratio, we are paying in relation to its book and it is important for the bank to increase the return overtime for the shareholders. Formula to Calculate the two metrics:  A basic rule of thumb is, P/B lower than 1 is considered undervalued from a Price to Book perspective. Higher than 1 indicates that the company is trading above its book signifying the company price might be relatively overpriced, again from a P/B perspective only. So, let's dive directly into the numbers reported by the commercial banks in the first quarter and see which company might be a bargain.  Note: To calculate the P/B ratio, we took the closing price of Thursday (DEC-03) For this Study, Sharesansar took the median of P/B ratio and ROE as a benchmark, and those trading below-median P/B but above-median ROE might be considered as low priced and those with above-median P/B and below-median ROE might be considered overpriced.   When we take a bird’s eye view of all the numbers of the banks, it is quite obvious that those banks which have been trading at a premium in relation to its book have reported higher Return on Equity which is a good thing because they giving good returns for the shareholder's money. However, when we carefully look into the numbers, some of the companies have also been trading at a premium despite lower Return on Equity. In this case, Nepal Investment Bank (NIB), Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI), Everest Bank Limited (EBL), and Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL). Those with lower median P/B ratio and above-median ROE are Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL), Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB), Kumari Bank Limited (KBL), and Mega Bank Nepal Limited (MEGA). Easy, right? Well, Calculations might show the mispriced stocks but there’s more to it. The company might be assigned a lower valuation because it might deserve it. And here’s why, (a) the company might not have growth potential, (b) the company might be relatively small compared to its peers, (c) maybe the investors are not satisfied with the management. There can be various reasons, and those reasons can also be applied to those companies which have higher P/B ratios. And this is why investors have to make themselves clear as to why the stocks are mispriced.  Investors should focus on the trend of ROE and P/B ratio because it will give a clear indication as to how the price has behaved in terms of ROE over the years. (Disclaimer: Do not take this as investment advice. This article is prepared to give a clear view of how to use the valuation metric with other metrics, not to provide the undervalued or overvalued stocks. Investors are requested to do their due diligence before buying any stock to ensure their margin of safety)     When there are lots of ticker symbols to choose from while investing, investors tend to adopt the habit of asking for a tip from the experienced investor as to which company will be the next hot stock which itself is not bad. That is because choosing from all those options comes at a cost for new investors. They have to sacrifice their precious time and energy into selecting the stock. But the sad part is, the investor still lags the analytical skill even after getting a tip which makes them their own greatest enemy in the stock market. In terms of the Nepalese stock market, more than 250 companies are being traded currently, and Financial institutions make up about 80% of the total market. There are Commercial Banks, Development Banks, Finance, and Microfinance companies to choose from. So, today we will focus on one of the valuation metrics which will allow investors to shortlist the cheap stocks in less time. It is without a doubt that financial institutions are relatively confusing and challenging to value even for skilled analysts. That is because, financial institutions unlike any other business have different business models i.e., collecting the deposit from its customers and lending out the money to their borrowers. But it doesn’t mean that it is not easy. Warren Buffet in one of his shareholder's meetings said that we should value banks like we value any other stock. So, from all the metrics that we use to value other stocks which metric can we use to value banks? The answer is the Price to Book Ratio. But here’s the catch, Price to Book should always be compared to what the company is earning on its book which is measured by Return on Equity (ROE). This is because, when we are using the P/B ratio, we are paying in relation to its book and it is important for the bank to increase the return overtime for the shareholders. Formula to Calculate the two metrics:  A basic rule of thumb is, P/B lower than 1 is considered undervalued from a Price to Book perspective. Higher than 1 indicates that the company is trading above its book signifying the company price might be relatively overpriced, again from a P/B perspective only. So, let's dive directly into the numbers reported by the commercial banks in the first quarter and see which company might be a bargain.  Note: To calculate the P/B ratio, we took the closing price of Thursday (DEC-03) For this Study, Sharesansar took the median of P/B ratio and ROE as a benchmark, and those trading below-median P/B but above-median ROE might be considered as low priced and those with above-median P/B and below-median ROE might be considered overpriced.   When we take a bird’s eye view of all the numbers of the banks, it is quite obvious that those banks which have been trading at a premium in relation to its book have reported higher Return on Equity which is a good thing because they giving good returns for the shareholder's money. However, when we carefully look into the numbers, some of the companies have also been trading at a premium despite lower Return on Equity. In this case, Nepal Investment Bank (NIB), Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI), Everest Bank Limited (EBL), and Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL). Those with lower median P/B ratio and above-median ROE are Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL), Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB), Kumari Bank Limited (KBL), and Mega Bank Nepal Limited (MEGA). Easy, right? Well, Calculations might show the mispriced stocks but there’s more to it. The company might be assigned a lower valuation because it might deserve it. And here’s why, (a) the company might not have growth potential, (b) the company might be relatively small compared to its peers, (c) maybe the investors are not satisfied with the management. There can be various reasons, and those reasons can also be applied to those companies which have higher P/B ratios. And this is why investors have to make themselves clear as to why the stocks are mispriced.  Investors should focus on the trend of ROE and P/B ratio because it will give a clear indication as to how the price has behaved in terms of ROE over the years. (Disclaimer: Do not take this as investment advice. This article is prepared to give a clear view of how to use the valuation metric with other metrics, not to provide the undervalued or overvalued stocks. Investors are requested to do their due diligence before buying any stock to ensure their margin of safety)     When there are lots of ticker symbols to choose from while investing, investors tend to adopt the habit of asking for a tip from the experienced investor as to which company will be the next hot stock which itself is not bad. That is because choosing from all those options comes at a cost for new investors. They have to sacrifice their precious time and energy into selecting the stock. But the sad part is, the investor still lags the analytical skill even after getting a tip which makes them their own greatest enemy in the stock market. In terms of the Nepalese stock market, more than 250 companies are being traded currently, and Financial institutions make up about 80% of the total market. There are Commercial Banks, Development Banks, Finance, and Microfinance companies to choose from. So, today we will focus on one of the valuation metrics which will allow investors to shortlist the cheap stocks in less time. It is without a doubt that financial institutions are relatively confusing and challenging to value even for skilled analysts. That is because, financial institutions unlike any other business have different business models i.e., collecting the deposit from its customers and lending out the money to their borrowers. But it doesn’t mean that it is not easy. Warren Buffet in one of his shareholder's meetings said that we should value banks like we value any other stock. So, from all the metrics that we use to value other stocks which metric can we use to value banks? The answer is the Price to Book Ratio. But here’s the catch, Price to Book should always be compared to what the company is earning on its book which is measured by Return on Equity (ROE). This is because, when we are using the P/B ratio, we are paying in relation to its book and it is important for the bank to increase the return overtime for the shareholders. Formula to Calculate the two metrics:  A basic rule of thumb is, P/B lower than 1 is considered undervalued from a Price to Book perspective. Higher than 1 indicates that the company is trading above its book signifying the company price might be relatively overpriced, again from a P/B perspective only. So, let's dive directly into the numbers reported by the commercial banks in the first quarter and see which company might be a bargain.  Note: To calculate the P/B ratio, we took the closing price of Thursday (DEC-03) For this Study, Sharesansar took the median of P/B ratio and ROE as a benchmark, and those trading below-median P/B but above-median ROE might be considered as low priced and those with above-median P/B and below-median ROE might be considered overpriced.   When we take a bird’s eye view of all the numbers of the banks, it is quite obvious that those banks which have been trading at a premium in relation to its book have reported higher Return on Equity which is a good thing because they giving good returns for the shareholder's money. However, when we carefully look into the numbers, some of the companies have also been trading at a premium despite lower Return on Equity. In this case, Nepal Investment Bank (NIB), Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI), Everest Bank Limited (EBL), and Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL). Those with lower median P/B ratio and above-median ROE are Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL), Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB), Kumari Bank Limited (KBL), and Mega Bank Nepal Limited (MEGA). Easy, right? Well, Calculations might show the mispriced stocks but there’s more to it. The company might be assigned a lower valuation because it might deserve it. And here’s why, (a) the company might not have growth potential, (b) the company might be relatively small compared to its peers, (c) maybe the investors are not satisfied with the management. There can be various reasons, and those reasons can also be applied to those companies which have higher P/B ratios. And this is why investors have to make themselves clear as to why the stocks are mispriced.  Investors should focus on the trend of ROE and P/B ratio because it will give a clear indication as to how the price has behaved in terms of ROE over the years. (Disclaimer: Do not take this as investment advice. This article is prepared to give a clear view of how to use the valuation metric with other metrics, not to provide the undervalued or overvalued stocks. Investors are requested to do their due diligence before buying any stock to ensure their margin of safety)     "
2020-12-06,Nabil Bank & One to Watch Collaborates to Support MSMEs in Nepal; small and medium business to receive collateral and interest-free loan to fight COVID induced economic crises,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-one-to-watch-collaborates-to-support-msmes-in-nepal-small-and-medium-business-to-receive-collateral-and-interest-free-loan-to-fight-covid-induced-economic-crises-2020-12-06,"Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank and One to Watch (OTW), an investment management company, have collaborated to provide interest-free & collateral-free loans to MSMEs under OTW COVID-19 MSME Fund Nepal. Under this strategic partnership, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) with the potential to return to revenue against the COVID-19 induced recession shall be benefited by the collateral-free and interest-free loan to meet their short-term working capital and help them survive through the hardships and restrictions presented by COVID-19. Apart from the loan, enterprises shall also receive technical assistance in the form of customized business advisory/development services enabling them to preserve business continuity and build resilience.  MSMEs evaluated to have the potential to bounce back based on a pre-determined set of criteria shall get collateral-free loan from Nabil Bank and the interest amount shall be paid by the Fund for a maximum period of 18 months. Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Deputy CEO, Nabil Bank and Mr. Suman Joshi, Managing Director, One to Watch signed the agreement in presence of Mr. Niraj Basnet Danil, Head SME and Microfinance, Nabil Bank and Ms. Subrina Shrestha, Program Manager, One to Watch. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank said, “Nabil Bank is always ready to support the MSME sector in Nepal, to help grow their businesses and surge ahead for long-term stability and overall economic growth of the country. We are very excited to collaborate with One to Watch in this effort to provide interest-free and collateral-free working capital loans to MSMEs affected by COVID-19 to assist in their survival through these tough times, enabling them to retain their teams and sustain their businesses.  Nabil Bank continues to be focused on promoting the MSME segment by bringing products and services that enable ease of access to finance to small entrepreneurs and businesses in this segment.” Likewise, Mr. Suman Joshi, Managing Partner, One to Watch said, “We are pleased to on-board Nabil Bank to the pool of Partner Banks. Since the launch of the Fund a few weeks ago, we have received very encouraging response from SMEs belonging to diverse sectors and geographies across Nepal. With Nabil’s participation, our mission to help SMEs bounce bank and create jobs will receive further boost.” MSMEs can visit the following link (https://rb.gy/8jqzxg) to fill up the application form to apply for the fund. Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank and One to Watch (OTW), an investment management company, have collaborated to provide interest-free & collateral-free loans to MSMEs under OTW COVID-19 MSME Fund Nepal. Under this strategic partnership, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) with the potential to return to revenue against the COVID-19 induced recession shall be benefited by the collateral-free and interest-free loan to meet their short-term working capital and help them survive through the hardships and restrictions presented by COVID-19. Apart from the loan, enterprises shall also receive technical assistance in the form of customized business advisory/development services enabling them to preserve business continuity and build resilience.  MSMEs evaluated to have the potential to bounce back based on a pre-determined set of criteria shall get collateral-free loan from Nabil Bank and the interest amount shall be paid by the Fund for a maximum period of 18 months. Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Deputy CEO, Nabil Bank and Mr. Suman Joshi, Managing Director, One to Watch signed the agreement in presence of Mr. Niraj Basnet Danil, Head SME and Microfinance, Nabil Bank and Ms. Subrina Shrestha, Program Manager, One to Watch. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank said, “Nabil Bank is always ready to support the MSME sector in Nepal, to help grow their businesses and surge ahead for long-term stability and overall economic growth of the country. We are very excited to collaborate with One to Watch in this effort to provide interest-free and collateral-free working capital loans to MSMEs affected by COVID-19 to assist in their survival through these tough times, enabling them to retain their teams and sustain their businesses.  Nabil Bank continues to be focused on promoting the MSME segment by bringing products and services that enable ease of access to finance to small entrepreneurs and businesses in this segment.” Likewise, Mr. Suman Joshi, Managing Partner, One to Watch said, “We are pleased to on-board Nabil Bank to the pool of Partner Banks. Since the launch of the Fund a few weeks ago, we have received very encouraging response from SMEs belonging to diverse sectors and geographies across Nepal. With Nabil’s participation, our mission to help SMEs bounce bank and create jobs will receive further boost.” MSMEs can visit the following link (https://rb.gy/8jqzxg) to fill up the application form to apply for the fund. Nepal’s leading commercial bank, Nabil Bank and One to Watch (OTW), an investment management company, have collaborated to provide interest-free & collateral-free loans to MSMEs under OTW COVID-19 MSME Fund Nepal. Under this strategic partnership, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) with the potential to return to revenue against the COVID-19 induced recession shall be benefited by the collateral-free and interest-free loan to meet their short-term working capital and help them survive through the hardships and restrictions presented by COVID-19. Apart from the loan, enterprises shall also receive technical assistance in the form of customized business advisory/development services enabling them to preserve business continuity and build resilience.  MSMEs evaluated to have the potential to bounce back based on a pre-determined set of criteria shall get collateral-free loan from Nabil Bank and the interest amount shall be paid by the Fund for a maximum period of 18 months. Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Deputy CEO, Nabil Bank and Mr. Suman Joshi, Managing Director, One to Watch signed the agreement in presence of Mr. Niraj Basnet Danil, Head SME and Microfinance, Nabil Bank and Ms. Subrina Shrestha, Program Manager, One to Watch. Speaking about the partnership, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank said, “Nabil Bank is always ready to support the MSME sector in Nepal, to help grow their businesses and surge ahead for long-term stability and overall economic growth of the country. We are very excited to collaborate with One to Watch in this effort to provide interest-free and collateral-free working capital loans to MSMEs affected by COVID-19 to assist in their survival through these tough times, enabling them to retain their teams and sustain their businesses.  Nabil Bank continues to be focused on promoting the MSME segment by bringing products and services that enable ease of access to finance to small entrepreneurs and businesses in this segment.” Likewise, Mr. Suman Joshi, Managing Partner, One to Watch said, “We are pleased to on-board Nabil Bank to the pool of Partner Banks. Since the launch of the Fund a few weeks ago, we have received very encouraging response from SMEs belonging to diverse sectors and geographies across Nepal. With Nabil’s participation, our mission to help SMEs bounce bank and create jobs will receive further boost.” MSMEs can visit the following link (https://rb.gy/8jqzxg) to fill up the application form to apply for the fund. "
2020-11-25,Nabil Bank signs MOU with Daraz to support SME sector; to enable Daraz sellers to procure affordable credit from Nabil Bank under Sarathi program,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-signs-mou-with-daraz-to-support-sme-sector-to-enable-daraz-sellers-to-procure-affordable-credit-from-nabil-bank-under-sarathi-program-2020-11-25,"Nabil Bank Limited and Daraz Kaymu Pvt. Ltd. have signed a MOU for collaboration in supporting Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) businesses in Nepal. Nabil Bank is a leading commercial bank in Nepal providing banking services to the customers. Daraz is one of the largest online shopping store in Nepal, empowering thousands of sellers to connect with large customer community. Together they have launched financing program called “Sarathi Program”, where Daraz sellers shall be able to apply for large varieties of Nabil SME loan products with attractive interest rates. This program is designed for all the SME customers both existing and new, selling their products through Daraz platform.  Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Deputy CEO, Nabil Bank and Mr. Lino Alhering, Managing Director, Daraz Kaymu Pvt. Ltd had signed the agreement during a special ceremony. Speaking about the launch, Deputy CEO of Nabil Bank said that, ""This collaboration will remain as a milestone for the development of digital marketplace in Nepal. One of our top priorities is to provide support to SMEs in Nepal to enhance their business through value chain financing for which we have collaborated with Daraz for the Sarathi Program. We believe this financing arrangement shall help them to navigate through the hardships due to COVID-19 and revive their businesses for long term stability and growth.” Likewise, Managing Director, Daraz Kaymu Pvt. Ltd said, ""We are very excited to present Sarathi in collaboration with Nabil Bank. Even though we have worked on this for a long time, it proves to be even more important considering the impact of COVID-19 on the economy. This is a new solution to credit scoring in Nepal and we are just in the beginning of this strategic partnership. Hence, we are looking forward to working very closely with Nabil Bank on this SME lending program so we can further strengthen the Nepali ecosystem"". SMEs interested in creating their online presence can visit the following link to the Sarathi Program which is jointly facilitated by Nabil Bank and Daraz. https://www.daraz.com.np/wow/camp/daraz/megascenario/np/campaigns/daraz-sarathi-program?hybrid=1 The Bank is operating with wide network with 119 branches, 185 ATMs and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with highly trained team and robust / secured banking system, bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank Limited and Daraz Kaymu Pvt. Ltd. have signed a MOU for collaboration in supporting Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) businesses in Nepal. Nabil Bank is a leading commercial bank in Nepal providing banking services to the customers. Daraz is one of the largest online shopping store in Nepal, empowering thousands of sellers to connect with large customer community. Together they have launched financing program called “Sarathi Program”, where Daraz sellers shall be able to apply for large varieties of Nabil SME loan products with attractive interest rates. This program is designed for all the SME customers both existing and new, selling their products through Daraz platform.  Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Deputy CEO, Nabil Bank and Mr. Lino Alhering, Managing Director, Daraz Kaymu Pvt. Ltd had signed the agreement during a special ceremony. Speaking about the launch, Deputy CEO of Nabil Bank said that, ""This collaboration will remain as a milestone for the development of digital marketplace in Nepal. One of our top priorities is to provide support to SMEs in Nepal to enhance their business through value chain financing for which we have collaborated with Daraz for the Sarathi Program. We believe this financing arrangement shall help them to navigate through the hardships due to COVID-19 and revive their businesses for long term stability and growth.” Likewise, Managing Director, Daraz Kaymu Pvt. Ltd said, ""We are very excited to present Sarathi in collaboration with Nabil Bank. Even though we have worked on this for a long time, it proves to be even more important considering the impact of COVID-19 on the economy. This is a new solution to credit scoring in Nepal and we are just in the beginning of this strategic partnership. Hence, we are looking forward to working very closely with Nabil Bank on this SME lending program so we can further strengthen the Nepali ecosystem"". SMEs interested in creating their online presence can visit the following link to the Sarathi Program which is jointly facilitated by Nabil Bank and Daraz. https://www.daraz.com.np/wow/camp/daraz/megascenario/np/campaigns/daraz-sarathi-program?hybrid=1 The Bank is operating with wide network with 119 branches, 185 ATMs and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with highly trained team and robust / secured banking system, bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank Limited and Daraz Kaymu Pvt. Ltd. have signed a MOU for collaboration in supporting Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) businesses in Nepal. Nabil Bank is a leading commercial bank in Nepal providing banking services to the customers. Daraz is one of the largest online shopping store in Nepal, empowering thousands of sellers to connect with large customer community. Together they have launched financing program called “Sarathi Program”, where Daraz sellers shall be able to apply for large varieties of Nabil SME loan products with attractive interest rates. This program is designed for all the SME customers both existing and new, selling their products through Daraz platform.  Mr. Sujit Kumar Shakya, Deputy CEO, Nabil Bank and Mr. Lino Alhering, Managing Director, Daraz Kaymu Pvt. Ltd had signed the agreement during a special ceremony. Speaking about the launch, Deputy CEO of Nabil Bank said that, ""This collaboration will remain as a milestone for the development of digital marketplace in Nepal. One of our top priorities is to provide support to SMEs in Nepal to enhance their business through value chain financing for which we have collaborated with Daraz for the Sarathi Program. We believe this financing arrangement shall help them to navigate through the hardships due to COVID-19 and revive their businesses for long term stability and growth.” Likewise, Managing Director, Daraz Kaymu Pvt. Ltd said, ""We are very excited to present Sarathi in collaboration with Nabil Bank. Even though we have worked on this for a long time, it proves to be even more important considering the impact of COVID-19 on the economy. This is a new solution to credit scoring in Nepal and we are just in the beginning of this strategic partnership. Hence, we are looking forward to working very closely with Nabil Bank on this SME lending program so we can further strengthen the Nepali ecosystem"". SMEs interested in creating their online presence can visit the following link to the Sarathi Program which is jointly facilitated by Nabil Bank and Daraz. https://www.daraz.com.np/wow/camp/daraz/megascenario/np/campaigns/daraz-sarathi-program?hybrid=1 The Bank is operating with wide network with 119 branches, 185 ATMs and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with highly trained team and robust / secured banking system, bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. "
2020-11-20,First Quarter in a glimpse: Here's how commercial banks faced and survived the pandemic,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/comparative-of-commercial-banks-of-q1-20772078-2020-11-20,"For the last 7 and a half months, every sector of the economy has faced a serious downturn due to the global pandemic. Those businesses having strong balance sheet positioning and strategy survived this downturn, however not fully. Talking about a specific industry which is a backbone of the country; banking, there was speculation in the market as to how would the banking industry recover their loans since businesses were shut down all over the country due to lockdown imposed by the government to contain the virus. So, let's dive into their financial performance and how the industry performed in the first quarter of the new fiscal year 2077/2078. Net Profit: As per the quarterly report published by all the companies; Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has reported the highest net profit of Rs. 1.05 Arba. Global IME is followed by Nabil Bank limited (NABIL) with a net profit of Rs. 1.03 Arba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has secured the third position with a net profit of Rs. 1.02 Arba.  Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has reported the least profit amounting to Rs. 9.66 crores. Surprisingly, out of 27 commercial banks, 19 banks have reported a decline in their net profit in Q1 of FY 2077/2078 compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year.  This quarter’s total profit for the industry stood at Rs. 14.51 Arba which was Rs. 15.84 Arba in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. This is a decrease of 8.40%. Distributable Profit: In terms of the distributable profit, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) leads the way with a profit of Rs. 1.20 Arba. Similarly, NMB Bank Limited (NMB) has the second-highest distributable profit amounting to Rs. 51 crores. The third position is secured by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with a profit of Rs. 34 crores. *Rs in arba  Out of  27 banks, 6 banks have reported a negative distributable profit in this quarter. Impairment Charge/Reversal for a loan and other losses: If the borrowers don’t repay the loan amount to the bank after 90 days of the expiration date of the loan, the bank set aside a certain amount of money as provisions from their revenue. In total Banks have set aside Rs. 2.85 Arba as provisions. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) tops the list in Q1 as it has set aside 62 crores worth of impairment charges which is followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) which has set aside Rs. 51 crores. Agricultural Development Bank (ADBL) has set aside Rs. 31 crores worth of impairment charges. *Rs in Arba  Paid-up Capital: Paid-up capital is the amount of money that the company has received from its shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) leads the way in terms of paid-up capital with a total of Rs. 18.97 Arba. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the second-highest paid-up capital amounting to Rs. 14.98 Arba. Similarly, the list is followed by NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with a total of Rs. 14.44 Arba. *Rs in Arba  (*ADBL capital includes 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares) Reserve and Surplus: Out of 27 commercial banks, 12 banks have stood above the industry average benchmark of Rs. 7.29 Arba in their reserve fund. Combining the reserve of all the commercial banks the amount adds up to Rs. 1.96 Kharba. In terms of the reserve funds, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) leads the list with a total of Rs. 16.87 Arba in this quarter. Similarly, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second-highest reserve fund amounting to Rs. 15.27 Arba. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the third-highest reserve fund with a total amount of Rs. 13.92 Arba. *Rs in arba  Deposit from Customers: On average, banks have collected a total of Rs. 1.31 Kharba of deposit from customers. Only 11 banks out of 27 have reported above-average deposit collection for Q1. As of the first quarter of FY 2077/2078, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) has reported the highest deposit amounting to Rs. 2.38 Kharba. The list is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with a total of Rs. 2.31 Kharba and 2.24 Kharba respectively. *Rs in arba   Loans and Advances: Combining all the bank's loan portfolio, till Q1 of FY 2077/2078, they have disbursed a total of Rs. 29.90 Kharba worth of loans. The averaged figures stand at Rs. 1.07 Kharba. In terms of loan distribution, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the highest loans out of all banks which amounts to Rs. 1.95 Arba. GBIME is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) which has a total loan portfolio of Rs. 1.89 Kharba. Similarly, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third-highest loan portfolio of Rs. 1.57 Kharba. *Rs in arba  However, one has to always look into the quality of loans while analyzing, rather than just looking at the growth of loans/loans itself.  Net Interest Income: Net interest income is the total earnings of the bank after deducting the cost for a deposit from the income collected from the loan disbursement. The bank with the highest net interest income is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with a total of Rs. 2.59 Arba. The bank is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) and Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) with a total of Rs. 1.98 Arba and Rs. 1.87 Arba respectively. Out of 27 banks, 13 banks have reported above industry average income in Q1 of this fiscal year. *Rs in arba  Total Comprehensive Income: In terms of comprehensive income, Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) leads the way with a total of Rs. 1.22 Arba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest income with a total of Rs. 1.20 Arba. Similarly, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a total comprehensive income of Rs. 1.16 Arba. *Rs in arba  Key Indicators Annualized Earnings per share (EPS) NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) tops the list with the highest EPS in this quarter among all the banks with Rs. 42.03 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs. 41.03 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) is in the third position with an EPS of Rs. 36.84 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) reported the least EPS of Rs. 4.83 per share. Out of 27 commercial banks, 9 banks have reported above industry average EPS in this quarter.  Net Worth per share: The highest net worth per share is reported by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with Rs. 302.61 per share. This is followed by Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) with a net worth per share of Rs. 273.49. Similarly, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) has the third-highest net worth per share of Rs. 269.59 per share. Out of all the banks, only 9 banks have surpassed the above-average industry net worth per share.  Price to Earnings Ratio: P/E ratio clarifies investors what they are paying against the earnings of the company. The higher the ratio, the expensive the deal in terms of the earnings. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) has the highest P/E ratio of 46.12 times. This is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with a P/E of 45.19 times. Out of 26 banks (Excluding RBB), 17 banks have reported below industry average P/E Ratio.  NOTE: P/E ratio doesn’t factor in the growth of the company. So, investors need to keep in mind that in some cases, a higher ratio can indicate that the company has higher growth and investors are willing to pay a premium for a stock for its future growth.   Non-performing Loan: This indicator tells what portion of loans the company has declared as bad loans. in terms of NPL, Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) has reported the lowest NPL of 0.00%. This is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.22%. Similarly, Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) has reported the third lowest NPL of 0.25%. The highest NPL is reported by Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) of NPL of 4.10%. Out of all the banks, 15 banks have reported above-average Nonperforming loans in this quarter.       Capital Adequacy Ratio: In terms of Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has reported the highest CAR of 20.33%. This is followed by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with CAR of 20.23%.  NOTE: Regulatory requirement of CAR is 11% as instructed by Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the first quarter of FY 2077/2078.  (*Rs in arba for Loans, Deposits, Capital, Reserve, NII, Imaparment, Net Profit)   Wrapping Up Covid-19 pandemic affected economies all around the world. Many businesses in the international arena struggled to even keep standing during a crisis of this scale.  Thus, looking at the worldwide scenario, the banks and financial institutions in Nepal managed to somehow keep things intact and even remain profitable. As Anil Keshari Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank eloquently says, the primary focus during this time was survival, then revival, and then only can financial institutions think about growth.  Furthermore, with successful Covid-19 vaccine tests reported recently, it can be safely said that the economy will only recover from now on. If we look at the capital market of Nepal, NEPSE gained the highest turnover in its history and the index is at a 4-year high. Investors clearly see some light at the end of this tunnel.  Are the bad times already behind us? Can banks and financial institutions get back on ""being in business?"" Only time will tell.        For the last 7 and a half months, every sector of the economy has faced a serious downturn due to the global pandemic. Those businesses having strong balance sheet positioning and strategy survived this downturn, however not fully. Talking about a specific industry which is a backbone of the country; banking, there was speculation in the market as to how would the banking industry recover their loans since businesses were shut down all over the country due to lockdown imposed by the government to contain the virus. So, let's dive into their financial performance and how the industry performed in the first quarter of the new fiscal year 2077/2078. Net Profit: As per the quarterly report published by all the companies; Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has reported the highest net profit of Rs. 1.05 Arba. Global IME is followed by Nabil Bank limited (NABIL) with a net profit of Rs. 1.03 Arba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has secured the third position with a net profit of Rs. 1.02 Arba.  Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has reported the least profit amounting to Rs. 9.66 crores. Surprisingly, out of 27 commercial banks, 19 banks have reported a decline in their net profit in Q1 of FY 2077/2078 compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year.  This quarter’s total profit for the industry stood at Rs. 14.51 Arba which was Rs. 15.84 Arba in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. This is a decrease of 8.40%. Distributable Profit: In terms of the distributable profit, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) leads the way with a profit of Rs. 1.20 Arba. Similarly, NMB Bank Limited (NMB) has the second-highest distributable profit amounting to Rs. 51 crores. The third position is secured by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with a profit of Rs. 34 crores. *Rs in arba  Out of  27 banks, 6 banks have reported a negative distributable profit in this quarter. Impairment Charge/Reversal for a loan and other losses: If the borrowers don’t repay the loan amount to the bank after 90 days of the expiration date of the loan, the bank set aside a certain amount of money as provisions from their revenue. In total Banks have set aside Rs. 2.85 Arba as provisions. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) tops the list in Q1 as it has set aside 62 crores worth of impairment charges which is followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) which has set aside Rs. 51 crores. Agricultural Development Bank (ADBL) has set aside Rs. 31 crores worth of impairment charges. *Rs in Arba  Paid-up Capital: Paid-up capital is the amount of money that the company has received from its shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) leads the way in terms of paid-up capital with a total of Rs. 18.97 Arba. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the second-highest paid-up capital amounting to Rs. 14.98 Arba. Similarly, the list is followed by NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with a total of Rs. 14.44 Arba. *Rs in Arba  (*ADBL capital includes 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares) Reserve and Surplus: Out of 27 commercial banks, 12 banks have stood above the industry average benchmark of Rs. 7.29 Arba in their reserve fund. Combining the reserve of all the commercial banks the amount adds up to Rs. 1.96 Kharba. In terms of the reserve funds, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) leads the list with a total of Rs. 16.87 Arba in this quarter. Similarly, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second-highest reserve fund amounting to Rs. 15.27 Arba. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the third-highest reserve fund with a total amount of Rs. 13.92 Arba. *Rs in arba  Deposit from Customers: On average, banks have collected a total of Rs. 1.31 Kharba of deposit from customers. Only 11 banks out of 27 have reported above-average deposit collection for Q1. As of the first quarter of FY 2077/2078, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) has reported the highest deposit amounting to Rs. 2.38 Kharba. The list is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with a total of Rs. 2.31 Kharba and 2.24 Kharba respectively. *Rs in arba   Loans and Advances: Combining all the bank's loan portfolio, till Q1 of FY 2077/2078, they have disbursed a total of Rs. 29.90 Kharba worth of loans. The averaged figures stand at Rs. 1.07 Kharba. In terms of loan distribution, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the highest loans out of all banks which amounts to Rs. 1.95 Arba. GBIME is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) which has a total loan portfolio of Rs. 1.89 Kharba. Similarly, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third-highest loan portfolio of Rs. 1.57 Kharba. *Rs in arba  However, one has to always look into the quality of loans while analyzing, rather than just looking at the growth of loans/loans itself.  Net Interest Income: Net interest income is the total earnings of the bank after deducting the cost for a deposit from the income collected from the loan disbursement. The bank with the highest net interest income is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with a total of Rs. 2.59 Arba. The bank is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) and Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) with a total of Rs. 1.98 Arba and Rs. 1.87 Arba respectively. Out of 27 banks, 13 banks have reported above industry average income in Q1 of this fiscal year. *Rs in arba  Total Comprehensive Income: In terms of comprehensive income, Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) leads the way with a total of Rs. 1.22 Arba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest income with a total of Rs. 1.20 Arba. Similarly, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a total comprehensive income of Rs. 1.16 Arba. *Rs in arba  Key Indicators Annualized Earnings per share (EPS) NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) tops the list with the highest EPS in this quarter among all the banks with Rs. 42.03 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs. 41.03 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) is in the third position with an EPS of Rs. 36.84 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) reported the least EPS of Rs. 4.83 per share. Out of 27 commercial banks, 9 banks have reported above industry average EPS in this quarter.  Net Worth per share: The highest net worth per share is reported by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with Rs. 302.61 per share. This is followed by Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) with a net worth per share of Rs. 273.49. Similarly, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) has the third-highest net worth per share of Rs. 269.59 per share. Out of all the banks, only 9 banks have surpassed the above-average industry net worth per share.  Price to Earnings Ratio: P/E ratio clarifies investors what they are paying against the earnings of the company. The higher the ratio, the expensive the deal in terms of the earnings. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) has the highest P/E ratio of 46.12 times. This is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with a P/E of 45.19 times. Out of 26 banks (Excluding RBB), 17 banks have reported below industry average P/E Ratio.  NOTE: P/E ratio doesn’t factor in the growth of the company. So, investors need to keep in mind that in some cases, a higher ratio can indicate that the company has higher growth and investors are willing to pay a premium for a stock for its future growth.   Non-performing Loan: This indicator tells what portion of loans the company has declared as bad loans. in terms of NPL, Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) has reported the lowest NPL of 0.00%. This is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.22%. Similarly, Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) has reported the third lowest NPL of 0.25%. The highest NPL is reported by Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) of NPL of 4.10%. Out of all the banks, 15 banks have reported above-average Nonperforming loans in this quarter.       Capital Adequacy Ratio: In terms of Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has reported the highest CAR of 20.33%. This is followed by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with CAR of 20.23%.  NOTE: Regulatory requirement of CAR is 11% as instructed by Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the first quarter of FY 2077/2078.  (*Rs in arba for Loans, Deposits, Capital, Reserve, NII, Imaparment, Net Profit)   Wrapping Up Covid-19 pandemic affected economies all around the world. Many businesses in the international arena struggled to even keep standing during a crisis of this scale.  Thus, looking at the worldwide scenario, the banks and financial institutions in Nepal managed to somehow keep things intact and even remain profitable. As Anil Keshari Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank eloquently says, the primary focus during this time was survival, then revival, and then only can financial institutions think about growth.  Furthermore, with successful Covid-19 vaccine tests reported recently, it can be safely said that the economy will only recover from now on. If we look at the capital market of Nepal, NEPSE gained the highest turnover in its history and the index is at a 4-year high. Investors clearly see some light at the end of this tunnel.  Are the bad times already behind us? Can banks and financial institutions get back on ""being in business?"" Only time will tell.        For the last 7 and a half months, every sector of the economy has faced a serious downturn due to the global pandemic. Those businesses having strong balance sheet positioning and strategy survived this downturn, however not fully. Talking about a specific industry which is a backbone of the country; banking, there was speculation in the market as to how would the banking industry recover their loans since businesses were shut down all over the country due to lockdown imposed by the government to contain the virus. So, let's dive into their financial performance and how the industry performed in the first quarter of the new fiscal year 2077/2078. Net Profit: As per the quarterly report published by all the companies; Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has reported the highest net profit of Rs. 1.05 Arba. Global IME is followed by Nabil Bank limited (NABIL) with a net profit of Rs. 1.03 Arba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has secured the third position with a net profit of Rs. 1.02 Arba.  Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has reported the least profit amounting to Rs. 9.66 crores. Surprisingly, out of 27 commercial banks, 19 banks have reported a decline in their net profit in Q1 of FY 2077/2078 compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year.  This quarter’s total profit for the industry stood at Rs. 14.51 Arba which was Rs. 15.84 Arba in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. This is a decrease of 8.40%. Distributable Profit: In terms of the distributable profit, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) leads the way with a profit of Rs. 1.20 Arba. Similarly, NMB Bank Limited (NMB) has the second-highest distributable profit amounting to Rs. 51 crores. The third position is secured by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with a profit of Rs. 34 crores. *Rs in arba  Out of  27 banks, 6 banks have reported a negative distributable profit in this quarter. Impairment Charge/Reversal for a loan and other losses: If the borrowers don’t repay the loan amount to the bank after 90 days of the expiration date of the loan, the bank set aside a certain amount of money as provisions from their revenue. In total Banks have set aside Rs. 2.85 Arba as provisions. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) tops the list in Q1 as it has set aside 62 crores worth of impairment charges which is followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) which has set aside Rs. 51 crores. Agricultural Development Bank (ADBL) has set aside Rs. 31 crores worth of impairment charges. *Rs in Arba  Paid-up Capital: Paid-up capital is the amount of money that the company has received from its shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) leads the way in terms of paid-up capital with a total of Rs. 18.97 Arba. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the second-highest paid-up capital amounting to Rs. 14.98 Arba. Similarly, the list is followed by NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with a total of Rs. 14.44 Arba. *Rs in Arba  (*ADBL capital includes 5.43 Arba irredeemable noncumulative preference shares) Reserve and Surplus: Out of 27 commercial banks, 12 banks have stood above the industry average benchmark of Rs. 7.29 Arba in their reserve fund. Combining the reserve of all the commercial banks the amount adds up to Rs. 1.96 Kharba. In terms of the reserve funds, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) leads the list with a total of Rs. 16.87 Arba in this quarter. Similarly, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second-highest reserve fund amounting to Rs. 15.27 Arba. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the third-highest reserve fund with a total amount of Rs. 13.92 Arba. *Rs in arba  Deposit from Customers: On average, banks have collected a total of Rs. 1.31 Kharba of deposit from customers. Only 11 banks out of 27 have reported above-average deposit collection for Q1. As of the first quarter of FY 2077/2078, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) has reported the highest deposit amounting to Rs. 2.38 Kharba. The list is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with a total of Rs. 2.31 Kharba and 2.24 Kharba respectively. *Rs in arba   Loans and Advances: Combining all the bank's loan portfolio, till Q1 of FY 2077/2078, they have disbursed a total of Rs. 29.90 Kharba worth of loans. The averaged figures stand at Rs. 1.07 Kharba. In terms of loan distribution, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the highest loans out of all banks which amounts to Rs. 1.95 Arba. GBIME is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) which has a total loan portfolio of Rs. 1.89 Kharba. Similarly, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third-highest loan portfolio of Rs. 1.57 Kharba. *Rs in arba  However, one has to always look into the quality of loans while analyzing, rather than just looking at the growth of loans/loans itself.  Net Interest Income: Net interest income is the total earnings of the bank after deducting the cost for a deposit from the income collected from the loan disbursement. The bank with the highest net interest income is Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with a total of Rs. 2.59 Arba. The bank is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) and Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) with a total of Rs. 1.98 Arba and Rs. 1.87 Arba respectively. Out of 27 banks, 13 banks have reported above industry average income in Q1 of this fiscal year. *Rs in arba  Total Comprehensive Income: In terms of comprehensive income, Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) leads the way with a total of Rs. 1.22 Arba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest income with a total of Rs. 1.20 Arba. Similarly, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has a total comprehensive income of Rs. 1.16 Arba. *Rs in arba  Key Indicators Annualized Earnings per share (EPS) NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) tops the list with the highest EPS in this quarter among all the banks with Rs. 42.03 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs. 41.03 per share. Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) is in the third position with an EPS of Rs. 36.84 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) reported the least EPS of Rs. 4.83 per share. Out of 27 commercial banks, 9 banks have reported above industry average EPS in this quarter.  Net Worth per share: The highest net worth per share is reported by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with Rs. 302.61 per share. This is followed by Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) with a net worth per share of Rs. 273.49. Similarly, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) has the third-highest net worth per share of Rs. 269.59 per share. Out of all the banks, only 9 banks have surpassed the above-average industry net worth per share.  Price to Earnings Ratio: P/E ratio clarifies investors what they are paying against the earnings of the company. The higher the ratio, the expensive the deal in terms of the earnings. Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) has the highest P/E ratio of 46.12 times. This is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with a P/E of 45.19 times. Out of 26 banks (Excluding RBB), 17 banks have reported below industry average P/E Ratio.  NOTE: P/E ratio doesn’t factor in the growth of the company. So, investors need to keep in mind that in some cases, a higher ratio can indicate that the company has higher growth and investors are willing to pay a premium for a stock for its future growth.   Non-performing Loan: This indicator tells what portion of loans the company has declared as bad loans. in terms of NPL, Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) has reported the lowest NPL of 0.00%. This is followed by Everest Bank Limited (EBL) with an NPL of 0.22%. Similarly, Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI) has reported the third lowest NPL of 0.25%. The highest NPL is reported by Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) of NPL of 4.10%. Out of all the banks, 15 banks have reported above-average Nonperforming loans in this quarter.       Capital Adequacy Ratio: In terms of Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has reported the highest CAR of 20.33%. This is followed by Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) with CAR of 20.23%.  NOTE: Regulatory requirement of CAR is 11% as instructed by Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the first quarter of FY 2077/2078.  (*Rs in arba for Loans, Deposits, Capital, Reserve, NII, Imaparment, Net Profit)   Wrapping Up Covid-19 pandemic affected economies all around the world. Many businesses in the international arena struggled to even keep standing during a crisis of this scale.  Thus, looking at the worldwide scenario, the banks and financial institutions in Nepal managed to somehow keep things intact and even remain profitable. As Anil Keshari Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank eloquently says, the primary focus during this time was survival, then revival, and then only can financial institutions think about growth.  Furthermore, with successful Covid-19 vaccine tests reported recently, it can be safely said that the economy will only recover from now on. If we look at the capital market of Nepal, NEPSE gained the highest turnover in its history and the index is at a 4-year high. Investors clearly see some light at the end of this tunnel.  Are the bad times already behind us? Can banks and financial institutions get back on ""being in business?"" Only time will tell.        "
2020-11-14,Nabil Bank's profit decline by meager margin in Q1; Distributable profit stands at impressive Rs 1.20 arba,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-profit-decline-by-meager-margin-in-q1-distributable-profit-stands-at-impressive-rs-120-arba-2020-11-14,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its first-quarter report for the FY 2077/2078 with a meager decline in Net Profit by 7.82%. The bank's net profit has decreased from Rs. 1.12 arba in the first quarter of FY 2076/2077 to Rs. 1.03 arba in the first quarter of FY 2077/2078. The bank reported Rs. 1.20 arba as distributable profit after P/L appropriation and regulatory requirements in this quarter. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 2.80% to Rs. 1.96 kharba (compared to immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 6.05% to Rs. 1.57 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the first quarter. The Net Interest Income (core business income) of the bank has decreased by 17.96% to Rs. 1.57 arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 10.09 Arba with Rs. 16.87 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remains stagnant at 0.65%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 41.03 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 267.08. The company traded at a P/E multiple of 20.96 times. Click here for Q1 report Major Highlights: * 2076/77 figure are of Immediate Previous Year Ending.  * Published EPS, Networth and PE may differ. As per NFRS standard, the Weighted average number of shares is taken while calculating EPS, Networth and PE but we have taken the number of shares as per Q1 end paid-up capital.   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its first-quarter report for the FY 2077/2078 with a meager decline in Net Profit by 7.82%. The bank's net profit has decreased from Rs. 1.12 arba in the first quarter of FY 2076/2077 to Rs. 1.03 arba in the first quarter of FY 2077/2078. The bank reported Rs. 1.20 arba as distributable profit after P/L appropriation and regulatory requirements in this quarter. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 2.80% to Rs. 1.96 kharba (compared to immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 6.05% to Rs. 1.57 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the first quarter. The Net Interest Income (core business income) of the bank has decreased by 17.96% to Rs. 1.57 arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 10.09 Arba with Rs. 16.87 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remains stagnant at 0.65%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 41.03 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 267.08. The company traded at a P/E multiple of 20.96 times. Click here for Q1 report Major Highlights: * 2076/77 figure are of Immediate Previous Year Ending.  * Published EPS, Networth and PE may differ. As per NFRS standard, the Weighted average number of shares is taken while calculating EPS, Networth and PE but we have taken the number of shares as per Q1 end paid-up capital.   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its first-quarter report for the FY 2077/2078 with a meager decline in Net Profit by 7.82%. The bank's net profit has decreased from Rs. 1.12 arba in the first quarter of FY 2076/2077 to Rs. 1.03 arba in the first quarter of FY 2077/2078. The bank reported Rs. 1.20 arba as distributable profit after P/L appropriation and regulatory requirements in this quarter. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 2.80% to Rs. 1.96 kharba (compared to immediate previous year ending) whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 6.05% to Rs. 1.57 kharba (compared to the immediate previous year ending) till the first quarter. The Net Interest Income (core business income) of the bank has decreased by 17.96% to Rs. 1.57 arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 10.09 Arba with Rs. 16.87 Arba in Reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) remains stagnant at 0.65%. The annualized earnings per share (EPS) of the Bank stood at Rs. 41.03 and Net worth per share stood at Rs. 267.08. The company traded at a P/E multiple of 20.96 times. Click here for Q1 report Major Highlights: * 2076/77 figure are of Immediate Previous Year Ending.  * Published EPS, Networth and PE may differ. As per NFRS standard, the Weighted average number of shares is taken while calculating EPS, Networth and PE but we have taken the number of shares as per Q1 end paid-up capital.   "
2020-11-13,Banks update interest rates for Mangsir; How will the change affect NEPSE?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/banks-update-interest-rates-for-mangsir-how-will-the-change-affect-nepse-2020-11-13,"Commercial Banks, Development Banks, and other financial institutions have updated the interest rates for the month of Kartik. Following Nepal Rastra Bank's instruction to update the interest rates profile for a month beforehand, the BFIs have updated the rates today on the last working day of Kartik. The update will be effective from Mangsir 01. When we look at the updates of commercial banks, it is evident that no bank has made no change to the interest rates on savings. Only Nabil Bank has brought the range down to 1.5 - 3.5% from the previous 2 - 4%. This shows that the Nepalese economy still has excess liquidity, a result of increased savings and decreased borrowings. When we look at the rates on fixed deposits, the interest rates profile hasn't changed. The base rate update is of great interest to stock investors. Declining base rate means investors can expect further cut in the interest rate offered by the banks. This is because interest rates and the stock market have an inverse relationship: one goes down when the other goes up and vice versa. The recent uptrend of NEPSE can be partially attributed to the excess liquidity in the economy and the slashing of interest rates that followed. When we look at the interest rate updates, we see that the base rate has declined for all the commercial banks under our study. The change is substantial for some banks while it is minimal for some. Nevertheless, the rates have gone down indeed. Also, by the decline of base rates, interest rates of loans have gone down as well. The margin lending rate is of more concern to an investor. Well, since these rates are hooked to the base rate, they have gone down too. As of now, the unchanged or decreased interest rates on savings indicates that the liquidity imbalance hasn't improved. Commercial Banks, Development Banks, and other financial institutions have updated the interest rates for the month of Kartik. Following Nepal Rastra Bank's instruction to update the interest rates profile for a month beforehand, the BFIs have updated the rates today on the last working day of Kartik. The update will be effective from Mangsir 01. When we look at the updates of commercial banks, it is evident that no bank has made no change to the interest rates on savings. Only Nabil Bank has brought the range down to 1.5 - 3.5% from the previous 2 - 4%. This shows that the Nepalese economy still has excess liquidity, a result of increased savings and decreased borrowings. When we look at the rates on fixed deposits, the interest rates profile hasn't changed. The base rate update is of great interest to stock investors. Declining base rate means investors can expect further cut in the interest rate offered by the banks. This is because interest rates and the stock market have an inverse relationship: one goes down when the other goes up and vice versa. The recent uptrend of NEPSE can be partially attributed to the excess liquidity in the economy and the slashing of interest rates that followed. When we look at the interest rate updates, we see that the base rate has declined for all the commercial banks under our study. The change is substantial for some banks while it is minimal for some. Nevertheless, the rates have gone down indeed. Also, by the decline of base rates, interest rates of loans have gone down as well. The margin lending rate is of more concern to an investor. Well, since these rates are hooked to the base rate, they have gone down too. As of now, the unchanged or decreased interest rates on savings indicates that the liquidity imbalance hasn't improved. Commercial Banks, Development Banks, and other financial institutions have updated the interest rates for the month of Kartik. Following Nepal Rastra Bank's instruction to update the interest rates profile for a month beforehand, the BFIs have updated the rates today on the last working day of Kartik. The update will be effective from Mangsir 01. When we look at the updates of commercial banks, it is evident that no bank has made no change to the interest rates on savings. Only Nabil Bank has brought the range down to 1.5 - 3.5% from the previous 2 - 4%. This shows that the Nepalese economy still has excess liquidity, a result of increased savings and decreased borrowings. When we look at the rates on fixed deposits, the interest rates profile hasn't changed. The base rate update is of great interest to stock investors. Declining base rate means investors can expect further cut in the interest rate offered by the banks. This is because interest rates and the stock market have an inverse relationship: one goes down when the other goes up and vice versa. The recent uptrend of NEPSE can be partially attributed to the excess liquidity in the economy and the slashing of interest rates that followed. When we look at the interest rate updates, we see that the base rate has declined for all the commercial banks under our study. The change is substantial for some banks while it is minimal for some. Nevertheless, the rates have gone down indeed. Also, by the decline of base rates, interest rates of loans have gone down as well. The margin lending rate is of more concern to an investor. Well, since these rates are hooked to the base rate, they have gone down too. As of now, the unchanged or decreased interest rates on savings indicates that the liquidity imbalance hasn't improved. "
2020-11-12,Nabil Bank launches new awareness video to make people sensible about COVID risk during Tihar celebration; urges people to stay healthy and keep others safe,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-new-awareness-video-to-make-people-sensible-about-covid-risk-during-tihar-celebration-urges-people-to-stay-healthy-and-keep-others-safe-2020-11-12,"Nabil Bank has launched a new awareness video targeting the upcoming Tihar festival through which the bank aims to make people sensible about the risk of COVID during the festival season and the ways to celebrate the festival as per the safety guidelines. As per the media statement, the Dashain special video that the bank had previously released garnered a lot of appreciation from the Nepalese public and has urged the citizens to go through the new video via the following URL: https://youtu.be/UDHa2E6ekNA   Nabil Bank has launched a new awareness video targeting the upcoming Tihar festival through which the bank aims to make people sensible about the risk of COVID during the festival season and the ways to celebrate the festival as per the safety guidelines. As per the media statement, the Dashain special video that the bank had previously released garnered a lot of appreciation from the Nepalese public and has urged the citizens to go through the new video via the following URL: https://youtu.be/UDHa2E6ekNA   Nabil Bank has launched a new awareness video targeting the upcoming Tihar festival through which the bank aims to make people sensible about the risk of COVID during the festival season and the ways to celebrate the festival as per the safety guidelines. As per the media statement, the Dashain special video that the bank had previously released garnered a lot of appreciation from the Nepalese public and has urged the citizens to go through the new video via the following URL: https://youtu.be/UDHa2E6ekNA   "
2020-10-29,Nabil Bank bags Leading Partner Bank in Nepal for 2020 award from ADB TSCFP; records highest transaction volume in the nation between review period,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-bags-leading-partner-bank-in-nepal-for-2020-award-from-adb-tscfp-records-highest-transaction-volume-in-the-nation-between-review-period-2020-10-29,"Nabil Bank Limited has been recognized as Leading Partner Bank in Nepal for 2020 by the Asian Development Bank- Trade & Supply Chain Finance Program (TSCFP). ADB's TSCFP fills market gaps for trade finance by providing guarantees and loans to banks to support trade. Trade Finance Program empowers countries to meet Sustainable Development Goals by closing market gaps through guarantees and loans.  As stated by the ADB trade finance program announcement, Nabil Bank has recorded the most transaction with TSCFP in Nepal from 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020. The Bank is operating with a wide network with 119 branches, 185 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank Limited has been recognized as Leading Partner Bank in Nepal for 2020 by the Asian Development Bank- Trade & Supply Chain Finance Program (TSCFP). ADB's TSCFP fills market gaps for trade finance by providing guarantees and loans to banks to support trade. Trade Finance Program empowers countries to meet Sustainable Development Goals by closing market gaps through guarantees and loans.  As stated by the ADB trade finance program announcement, Nabil Bank has recorded the most transaction with TSCFP in Nepal from 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020. The Bank is operating with a wide network with 119 branches, 185 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. Nabil Bank Limited has been recognized as Leading Partner Bank in Nepal for 2020 by the Asian Development Bank- Trade & Supply Chain Finance Program (TSCFP). ADB's TSCFP fills market gaps for trade finance by providing guarantees and loans to banks to support trade. Trade Finance Program empowers countries to meet Sustainable Development Goals by closing market gaps through guarantees and loans.  As stated by the ADB trade finance program announcement, Nabil Bank has recorded the most transaction with TSCFP in Nepal from 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020. The Bank is operating with a wide network with 119 branches, 185 ATMs, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents spread across the country. With banking experience of more than three decades with a highly trained team and robust/secured banking system, the bank is intended for superior service delivery for enhancing value to the customers. "
2020-10-22,Nabil Bank welcomes new chief; Chairman Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal receives virtual Oath  from NRB Governor,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-welcomes-new-chief-chairman-mr-upendra-prasad-poudyal-receives-virtual-oath-from-nrb-governor-2020-10-22,"Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, the newly appointed chairman of Nabil Bank, has taken Oath of Secrecy on October 21, 2020, with Governor of Nepal Rastra Bank, Mr. Maha Prasad Adhikari. The Oath ceremony was carried out virtually on a digital meeting platform. The event was witnessed virtually by two Deputy Governors, other senior officials of Nepal Rastra Bank, CEO, and other senior officials of Nabil Bank.  Mr. Poudyal had been serving as the Director of the Bank since 1st December 2017. He has been appointed as the new Chairman of the Bank effective from 6th October 2020.     Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, the newly appointed chairman of Nabil Bank, has taken Oath of Secrecy on October 21, 2020, with Governor of Nepal Rastra Bank, Mr. Maha Prasad Adhikari. The Oath ceremony was carried out virtually on a digital meeting platform. The event was witnessed virtually by two Deputy Governors, other senior officials of Nepal Rastra Bank, CEO, and other senior officials of Nabil Bank.  Mr. Poudyal had been serving as the Director of the Bank since 1st December 2017. He has been appointed as the new Chairman of the Bank effective from 6th October 2020.     Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, the newly appointed chairman of Nabil Bank, has taken Oath of Secrecy on October 21, 2020, with Governor of Nepal Rastra Bank, Mr. Maha Prasad Adhikari. The Oath ceremony was carried out virtually on a digital meeting platform. The event was witnessed virtually by two Deputy Governors, other senior officials of Nepal Rastra Bank, CEO, and other senior officials of Nabil Bank.  Mr. Poudyal had been serving as the Director of the Bank since 1st December 2017. He has been appointed as the new Chairman of the Bank effective from 6th October 2020.     "
2020-10-16,BFI's update interest rates for Kartik; How will the change affect NEPSE?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/bfis-update-interest-rates-for-kartik-how-will-the-change-affect-nepse-2020-10-16,"Commercial Banks, Development Banks, and other financial institutions have updated the interest rates for the month of Kartik. Following Nepal Rastra Bank's instruction to update the interest rates profile for a month beforehand, the BFIs have updated the rates today on the last day of Ashwin. The update will be effective from Kartik 01. When we look at the updates of commercial banks, it is evident that no bank has increased the interest rates on savings. They have either maintained the previous rates or have decreased a bit. This shows that the Nepalese economy still has excess liquidity, a result of increased savings and decreased borrowings. When we look at the rates on fixed deposits, the data seems multidirectional. Some banks have increased their rates on fixed deposits while some have decreased. Nonetheless, most have maintained the previous rates. However, it can't be denied that most have increased the interest rates on fixed deposits with a longer maturity period.    As a result, investors are keeping a watchful eye on what happens to the liquidity in the economy and the interest rates. As of now, the unchanged or decreased interest rates on savings indicates that the liquidity imbalance hasn't improved. Commercial Banks, Development Banks, and other financial institutions have updated the interest rates for the month of Kartik. Following Nepal Rastra Bank's instruction to update the interest rates profile for a month beforehand, the BFIs have updated the rates today on the last day of Ashwin. The update will be effective from Kartik 01. When we look at the updates of commercial banks, it is evident that no bank has increased the interest rates on savings. They have either maintained the previous rates or have decreased a bit. This shows that the Nepalese economy still has excess liquidity, a result of increased savings and decreased borrowings. When we look at the rates on fixed deposits, the data seems multidirectional. Some banks have increased their rates on fixed deposits while some have decreased. Nonetheless, most have maintained the previous rates. However, it can't be denied that most have increased the interest rates on fixed deposits with a longer maturity period.    As a result, investors are keeping a watchful eye on what happens to the liquidity in the economy and the interest rates. As of now, the unchanged or decreased interest rates on savings indicates that the liquidity imbalance hasn't improved. Commercial Banks, Development Banks, and other financial institutions have updated the interest rates for the month of Kartik. Following Nepal Rastra Bank's instruction to update the interest rates profile for a month beforehand, the BFIs have updated the rates today on the last day of Ashwin. The update will be effective from Kartik 01. When we look at the updates of commercial banks, it is evident that no bank has increased the interest rates on savings. They have either maintained the previous rates or have decreased a bit. This shows that the Nepalese economy still has excess liquidity, a result of increased savings and decreased borrowings. When we look at the rates on fixed deposits, the data seems multidirectional. Some banks have increased their rates on fixed deposits while some have decreased. Nonetheless, most have maintained the previous rates. However, it can't be denied that most have increased the interest rates on fixed deposits with a longer maturity period.    As a result, investors are keeping a watchful eye on what happens to the liquidity in the economy and the interest rates. As of now, the unchanged or decreased interest rates on savings indicates that the liquidity imbalance hasn't improved. "
2020-10-07,Nabil Bank welcomes Mr. Upendra Paudel as new chairman with 30 years plus banking experience; sees off its veteran former chairman and BoD with due respect,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-welcomes-mr-upendra-paudel-as-new-chairman-with-30-years-plus-banking-experience-sees-off-its-veteran-former-chairman-and-bod-with-due-respect-2020-10-07,"Effective from Ashoj 20, 2077, Nabil Bank has appointed Mr. Upendra Poudyal as the Chairman of the Bank. Mr. Poudyal has been serving as the Director of the Bank since 1st December 2017. He joined Nepal Grindlays Bank to start his banking career in 1986. He engaged himself in NMB Finance and led the company as CEO. He played crucial role in upgrading NMB Finance to a commercial Bank and served as CEO of the NMB Bank till 2017. Mr. Poudyal is an established leader in the Banking sector of Nepal with experience of more than 30 years as a successful banker and former President of Nepal Banker’s Association.  The four-year tenure of the two Directors representing the Public Shareholders on the Board of Nabil Bank Limited came to an end on 3rd October 2020. Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal, a legendary personality in the banking industry of Nepal, served as Chairman of Nabil Bank Limited till 3rd October 2020. He was appointed as Chairman of the Bank on 3rd May 2015. The Board praised his contribution with very high regard. Mr. Poudyal commenced his career at Nepal Rastra Bank. He joined Nabil Bank as Board of Directors on 9th February 1986 representing public shareholders of the Bank. He completed the 6 tenors as the Director of the Bank and contributed for the total period of 25 years in the Board of the Bank. The Bank acknowledges his continuous guidance to the management of the Bank to bring the Bank at the level of the leading Bank in the country and maintain these positions for many years while serving as Director and Chairman. His tireless efforts to lead the Bank to unprecedented success through the years prove his great personal abilities, dedication, energy, and commitment to the success of the Bank. Similarly, Mr. Dayaram Gopal Agrawal also completed his tenure as Board of Directors representing the public shareholders on the same date, 3rd October 2020. Mr. Agrawal served the Bank in the capacity of the Board of Directors for more than 26 years. He was first elected as Board of Directors representing public shareholders in 31 August 1994. Thereafter, he was re-elected as Board of Directors in the years 1999, 2004, 2008, 2012, and 2016 and completed all his tenures as a very successful director. His vast knowledge of business, devotion, high level of integrity, and desire to make the Bank, the Best Bank of the nation has brought the Bank to where it stands today. The entire Bank expresses its gratitude for their invaluable contributions and wishes great success in their future endeavors. Effective from Ashoj 20, 2077, Nabil Bank has appointed Mr. Upendra Poudyal as the Chairman of the Bank. Mr. Poudyal has been serving as the Director of the Bank since 1st December 2017. He joined Nepal Grindlays Bank to start his banking career in 1986. He engaged himself in NMB Finance and led the company as CEO. He played crucial role in upgrading NMB Finance to a commercial Bank and served as CEO of the NMB Bank till 2017. Mr. Poudyal is an established leader in the Banking sector of Nepal with experience of more than 30 years as a successful banker and former President of Nepal Banker’s Association.  The four-year tenure of the two Directors representing the Public Shareholders on the Board of Nabil Bank Limited came to an end on 3rd October 2020. Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal, a legendary personality in the banking industry of Nepal, served as Chairman of Nabil Bank Limited till 3rd October 2020. He was appointed as Chairman of the Bank on 3rd May 2015. The Board praised his contribution with very high regard. Mr. Poudyal commenced his career at Nepal Rastra Bank. He joined Nabil Bank as Board of Directors on 9th February 1986 representing public shareholders of the Bank. He completed the 6 tenors as the Director of the Bank and contributed for the total period of 25 years in the Board of the Bank. The Bank acknowledges his continuous guidance to the management of the Bank to bring the Bank at the level of the leading Bank in the country and maintain these positions for many years while serving as Director and Chairman. His tireless efforts to lead the Bank to unprecedented success through the years prove his great personal abilities, dedication, energy, and commitment to the success of the Bank. Similarly, Mr. Dayaram Gopal Agrawal also completed his tenure as Board of Directors representing the public shareholders on the same date, 3rd October 2020. Mr. Agrawal served the Bank in the capacity of the Board of Directors for more than 26 years. He was first elected as Board of Directors representing public shareholders in 31 August 1994. Thereafter, he was re-elected as Board of Directors in the years 1999, 2004, 2008, 2012, and 2016 and completed all his tenures as a very successful director. His vast knowledge of business, devotion, high level of integrity, and desire to make the Bank, the Best Bank of the nation has brought the Bank to where it stands today. The entire Bank expresses its gratitude for their invaluable contributions and wishes great success in their future endeavors. Effective from Ashoj 20, 2077, Nabil Bank has appointed Mr. Upendra Poudyal as the Chairman of the Bank. Mr. Poudyal has been serving as the Director of the Bank since 1st December 2017. He joined Nepal Grindlays Bank to start his banking career in 1986. He engaged himself in NMB Finance and led the company as CEO. He played crucial role in upgrading NMB Finance to a commercial Bank and served as CEO of the NMB Bank till 2017. Mr. Poudyal is an established leader in the Banking sector of Nepal with experience of more than 30 years as a successful banker and former President of Nepal Banker’s Association.  The four-year tenure of the two Directors representing the Public Shareholders on the Board of Nabil Bank Limited came to an end on 3rd October 2020. Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal, a legendary personality in the banking industry of Nepal, served as Chairman of Nabil Bank Limited till 3rd October 2020. He was appointed as Chairman of the Bank on 3rd May 2015. The Board praised his contribution with very high regard. Mr. Poudyal commenced his career at Nepal Rastra Bank. He joined Nabil Bank as Board of Directors on 9th February 1986 representing public shareholders of the Bank. He completed the 6 tenors as the Director of the Bank and contributed for the total period of 25 years in the Board of the Bank. The Bank acknowledges his continuous guidance to the management of the Bank to bring the Bank at the level of the leading Bank in the country and maintain these positions for many years while serving as Director and Chairman. His tireless efforts to lead the Bank to unprecedented success through the years prove his great personal abilities, dedication, energy, and commitment to the success of the Bank. Similarly, Mr. Dayaram Gopal Agrawal also completed his tenure as Board of Directors representing the public shareholders on the same date, 3rd October 2020. Mr. Agrawal served the Bank in the capacity of the Board of Directors for more than 26 years. He was first elected as Board of Directors representing public shareholders in 31 August 1994. Thereafter, he was re-elected as Board of Directors in the years 1999, 2004, 2008, 2012, and 2016 and completed all his tenures as a very successful director. His vast knowledge of business, devotion, high level of integrity, and desire to make the Bank, the Best Bank of the nation has brought the Bank to where it stands today. The entire Bank expresses its gratitude for their invaluable contributions and wishes great success in their future endeavors. "
2020-09-28,Nabil Bank launches its attractive Share Loan scheme; to issue loan against shares with just 7.75% interest for loan amount greater 50 lakh,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-its-attractive-share-loan-scheme-to-issue-loan-against-shares-with-just-775-interest-for-loan-amount-greater-50-lakh-2020-09-28,"Nabil Bank has launched a Nabil Share Loan product that allows customers to pledge their existing shares traded in NEPSE in Bank and get an easy loan for investment purposes as well as for meeting their social and personal obligations. Nabil Share Loan is currently offered at an attractive pricing of 7.75% p.a. for a loan of 50 lacs and above.  The loan shall be within the guidelines of Nepal Rastra Bank and is introduced as a festive offer considering the upcoming Bada Dashain which is available from all of Nabil Bank’s branches. Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has 119 branches and 185 ATM network all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With the recent launch of the Nabil Digi Bank unit, the Bank is exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs. The Bank aims to be the first digital bank of the country and Nabil Digi Bank is progressively improving customer touchpoints and internal processes to achieve the goal.       Nabil Bank has launched a Nabil Share Loan product that allows customers to pledge their existing shares traded in NEPSE in Bank and get an easy loan for investment purposes as well as for meeting their social and personal obligations. Nabil Share Loan is currently offered at an attractive pricing of 7.75% p.a. for a loan of 50 lacs and above.  The loan shall be within the guidelines of Nepal Rastra Bank and is introduced as a festive offer considering the upcoming Bada Dashain which is available from all of Nabil Bank’s branches. Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has 119 branches and 185 ATM network all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With the recent launch of the Nabil Digi Bank unit, the Bank is exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs. The Bank aims to be the first digital bank of the country and Nabil Digi Bank is progressively improving customer touchpoints and internal processes to achieve the goal.       Nabil Bank has launched a Nabil Share Loan product that allows customers to pledge their existing shares traded in NEPSE in Bank and get an easy loan for investment purposes as well as for meeting their social and personal obligations. Nabil Share Loan is currently offered at an attractive pricing of 7.75% p.a. for a loan of 50 lacs and above.  The loan shall be within the guidelines of Nepal Rastra Bank and is introduced as a festive offer considering the upcoming Bada Dashain which is available from all of Nabil Bank’s branches. Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has 119 branches and 185 ATM network all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With the recent launch of the Nabil Digi Bank unit, the Bank is exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs. The Bank aims to be the first digital bank of the country and Nabil Digi Bank is progressively improving customer touchpoints and internal processes to achieve the goal.       "
2020-09-25,Nabil Bank launches Green PIN Service; customers can now easily reset PIN of their ATM card at all ATM booths of the bank,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-green-pin-service-customers-can-now-easily-reset-pin-of-their-atm-card-at-all-atm-booths-of-the-bank-2020-09-25,"Nabil Bank has launched the Nabil Green PIN service that allows cardholders of the Bank to set/re-set PIN for their card issued by the bank through the Bank’s ATM network spread all over the country. With the introduction of Green PIN, the existing, as well as new card customers of the Bank, will get a seamless and hassle-free PIN setup service. To set a PIN, the cardholder needs to visit any of the Nabil Bank’s ATM and use the “Generate OTP for PIN” option on the screen after inserting the card. The customer shall receive an OTP in his/her registered mobile number with a validity of 24 hours. After the OTP is received, the customer shall choose the “Enter OTP to Change Your Pin” menu option and set/reset the desired PIN.  This service is available not only for new cardholders but also for existing cardholders, who have forgotten their PIN. Such customers can now reset their PIN themselves from any of Nabil Bank’s ATM, without contacting the Branch personnel. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of the Bank, said, “We want to enable our customers to have seamless access to our digital products and channels. We understand remembering multiple passwords is cumbersome and we often forget the passwords. Now, the customers do not have to rush to the Bank and fill up an application form to reset their password. They can do it themselves conveniently and securely right from the nearest ATM booth of the Bank at any time.” The Bank has named this feature Green PIN as this self-service functionality has eliminated the need for printing PIN Mailer and the use of tamper-proof Envelopes. From an environmental perspective, this is one of the eco-friendly and digital initiatives launched by Nabil Bank. Mr. Shah, CEO of the Bank, explained that the Bank aims to surge ahead with utmost consideration to user’s convenience and environmental safety and that Green PIN service is not just offering convenient password set/reset facility to the customers but also contributing to eco-friendly and paper/plastic-less practice for environmental protection. Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has 119 branches and 185 ATM network all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With the recent launch of the Nabil Digi Bank unit, the Bank is exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs. The Bank aims to be the first digital bank of the country and Nabil Digi Bank is progressively improving customer touchpoints and internal processes to achieve the goal. Nabil Bank has launched the Nabil Green PIN service that allows cardholders of the Bank to set/re-set PIN for their card issued by the bank through the Bank’s ATM network spread all over the country. With the introduction of Green PIN, the existing, as well as new card customers of the Bank, will get a seamless and hassle-free PIN setup service. To set a PIN, the cardholder needs to visit any of the Nabil Bank’s ATM and use the “Generate OTP for PIN” option on the screen after inserting the card. The customer shall receive an OTP in his/her registered mobile number with a validity of 24 hours. After the OTP is received, the customer shall choose the “Enter OTP to Change Your Pin” menu option and set/reset the desired PIN.  This service is available not only for new cardholders but also for existing cardholders, who have forgotten their PIN. Such customers can now reset their PIN themselves from any of Nabil Bank’s ATM, without contacting the Branch personnel. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of the Bank, said, “We want to enable our customers to have seamless access to our digital products and channels. We understand remembering multiple passwords is cumbersome and we often forget the passwords. Now, the customers do not have to rush to the Bank and fill up an application form to reset their password. They can do it themselves conveniently and securely right from the nearest ATM booth of the Bank at any time.” The Bank has named this feature Green PIN as this self-service functionality has eliminated the need for printing PIN Mailer and the use of tamper-proof Envelopes. From an environmental perspective, this is one of the eco-friendly and digital initiatives launched by Nabil Bank. Mr. Shah, CEO of the Bank, explained that the Bank aims to surge ahead with utmost consideration to user’s convenience and environmental safety and that Green PIN service is not just offering convenient password set/reset facility to the customers but also contributing to eco-friendly and paper/plastic-less practice for environmental protection. Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has 119 branches and 185 ATM network all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With the recent launch of the Nabil Digi Bank unit, the Bank is exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs. The Bank aims to be the first digital bank of the country and Nabil Digi Bank is progressively improving customer touchpoints and internal processes to achieve the goal. Nabil Bank has launched the Nabil Green PIN service that allows cardholders of the Bank to set/re-set PIN for their card issued by the bank through the Bank’s ATM network spread all over the country. With the introduction of Green PIN, the existing, as well as new card customers of the Bank, will get a seamless and hassle-free PIN setup service. To set a PIN, the cardholder needs to visit any of the Nabil Bank’s ATM and use the “Generate OTP for PIN” option on the screen after inserting the card. The customer shall receive an OTP in his/her registered mobile number with a validity of 24 hours. After the OTP is received, the customer shall choose the “Enter OTP to Change Your Pin” menu option and set/reset the desired PIN.  This service is available not only for new cardholders but also for existing cardholders, who have forgotten their PIN. Such customers can now reset their PIN themselves from any of Nabil Bank’s ATM, without contacting the Branch personnel. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of the Bank, said, “We want to enable our customers to have seamless access to our digital products and channels. We understand remembering multiple passwords is cumbersome and we often forget the passwords. Now, the customers do not have to rush to the Bank and fill up an application form to reset their password. They can do it themselves conveniently and securely right from the nearest ATM booth of the Bank at any time.” The Bank has named this feature Green PIN as this self-service functionality has eliminated the need for printing PIN Mailer and the use of tamper-proof Envelopes. From an environmental perspective, this is one of the eco-friendly and digital initiatives launched by Nabil Bank. Mr. Shah, CEO of the Bank, explained that the Bank aims to surge ahead with utmost consideration to user’s convenience and environmental safety and that Green PIN service is not just offering convenient password set/reset facility to the customers but also contributing to eco-friendly and paper/plastic-less practice for environmental protection. Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has 119 branches and 185 ATM network all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With the recent launch of the Nabil Digi Bank unit, the Bank is exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs. The Bank aims to be the first digital bank of the country and Nabil Digi Bank is progressively improving customer touchpoints and internal processes to achieve the goal. "
2020-09-22,Nabil Bank launch Nabil Fone Loan service; now customers can instantly apply for virtual credit card loans and avail short term loans up to NPR 1 Lakh in minutes,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launch-nabil-fone-loan-service-now-customers-can-instantly-apply-for-virtual-credit-card-loans-and-avail-short-term-loans-up-to-npr-1-lakh-in-minutes-2020-09-22,"Nabil Bank is pleased to announce the launch of the Nabil Fone Loan service. Nabil Fone Loan is an innovative digital lending service that provides small short term pre-approved loans to individual customers instantly through the bank’s mobile banking platform and by use of a Virtual Credit Card.  The solution is designed on the existing mobile banking platform of the bank backed by a virtual credit card. With this service, eligible customers can instantly apply for virtual credit card loans using banks’ mobile banking and avail short term loans up to NPR 1 Lakh in minutes. Bank has partnered with F1 Soft International Pvt. Ltd. for the technology. In the first phase; this service shall be extended to those customers who are maintaining a salary/payroll account with  Bank. In the future, the bank plans to extend the service to other segments of customers as well. Benefits to Customers CEO of Nabil Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah stated that he is confident to win the satisfaction of the customer due to its amazing features like hassle-free, collateral-free, paperless and immediate deposit of the loan amount without having to visit branches to apply for the loan. Mr. Shah further added that It is for the first time in Nepalese banking Industry that customer gets instant loan using the banking app without having to submit any physical documentation and Nabil Bank takes pride in that. Nabil Bank is a leading bank in the digital banking industry in Nepal. It has 119 branches and 185 ATM network all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With the recent launch of the Nabil Fone Loan, the Bank is exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs. The Bank aims to be the first digital bank of the country and Nabil Digi Bank is progressively improving customer touchpoints and internal processes to achieve the goal.   Nabil Bank is pleased to announce the launch of the Nabil Fone Loan service. Nabil Fone Loan is an innovative digital lending service that provides small short term pre-approved loans to individual customers instantly through the bank’s mobile banking platform and by use of a Virtual Credit Card.  The solution is designed on the existing mobile banking platform of the bank backed by a virtual credit card. With this service, eligible customers can instantly apply for virtual credit card loans using banks’ mobile banking and avail short term loans up to NPR 1 Lakh in minutes. Bank has partnered with F1 Soft International Pvt. Ltd. for the technology. In the first phase; this service shall be extended to those customers who are maintaining a salary/payroll account with  Bank. In the future, the bank plans to extend the service to other segments of customers as well. Benefits to Customers CEO of Nabil Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah stated that he is confident to win the satisfaction of the customer due to its amazing features like hassle-free, collateral-free, paperless and immediate deposit of the loan amount without having to visit branches to apply for the loan. Mr. Shah further added that It is for the first time in Nepalese banking Industry that customer gets instant loan using the banking app without having to submit any physical documentation and Nabil Bank takes pride in that. Nabil Bank is a leading bank in the digital banking industry in Nepal. It has 119 branches and 185 ATM network all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With the recent launch of the Nabil Fone Loan, the Bank is exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs. The Bank aims to be the first digital bank of the country and Nabil Digi Bank is progressively improving customer touchpoints and internal processes to achieve the goal.   Nabil Bank is pleased to announce the launch of the Nabil Fone Loan service. Nabil Fone Loan is an innovative digital lending service that provides small short term pre-approved loans to individual customers instantly through the bank’s mobile banking platform and by use of a Virtual Credit Card.  The solution is designed on the existing mobile banking platform of the bank backed by a virtual credit card. With this service, eligible customers can instantly apply for virtual credit card loans using banks’ mobile banking and avail short term loans up to NPR 1 Lakh in minutes. Bank has partnered with F1 Soft International Pvt. Ltd. for the technology. In the first phase; this service shall be extended to those customers who are maintaining a salary/payroll account with  Bank. In the future, the bank plans to extend the service to other segments of customers as well. Benefits to Customers CEO of Nabil Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah stated that he is confident to win the satisfaction of the customer due to its amazing features like hassle-free, collateral-free, paperless and immediate deposit of the loan amount without having to visit branches to apply for the loan. Mr. Shah further added that It is for the first time in Nepalese banking Industry that customer gets instant loan using the banking app without having to submit any physical documentation and Nabil Bank takes pride in that. Nabil Bank is a leading bank in the digital banking industry in Nepal. It has 119 branches and 185 ATM network all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been at the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With the recent launch of the Nabil Fone Loan, the Bank is exploring digital avenues to cater to the customers’ needs. The Bank aims to be the first digital bank of the country and Nabil Digi Bank is progressively improving customer touchpoints and internal processes to achieve the goal.   "
2020-09-17,"Nabil Bank offering 9% interest rate on fixed deposits; updates interest rates on  SME loans, mortgage loans, and retail home loans",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-updates-interest-rates-on-fixed-deposits-sme-loans-mortgage-loans-and-and-retail-home-loans-2020-09-17,"Nabil Bank has updated its interest rates on individual fixed deposits, small and medium enterprise (SME) loans, mortgage loans, and retail home loans. The bank claims that the ""festive offers"" are intended to help all Nepalese to either earn higher interest rates on Fixed Deposits or reduce their borrowing costs and minimize economic pains inflicted by the coronavirus pandemic. Nabil Bank is providing a 9% p.a. interest on individual fixed deposits for the tenure of 13 months to 24 months. One-year FDs can be opened at 8.5% p.a. Similarly, FDs with maturity period from 2 to 5 years yield a 9.25% interest while FDs with maturity period longer than 5 years give 9.50% interest p.a. These rates are a bit higher than what most banks now provide on fixed deposits.   Furthermore, Nabil Bank is offering 7.49% p.a. interest in retail home loans and 7.99% on mortgage loans. SME loans of up to Rs. 1 Crore will be provided at an interest of 7.49% p.a. In contrast, SME loans above Rs. 1 Crore have an interest rate of 7.99% p.a. The above lending rates will remain unchanged for a year. Nabil Bank has updated its interest rates on individual fixed deposits, small and medium enterprise (SME) loans, mortgage loans, and retail home loans. The bank claims that the ""festive offers"" are intended to help all Nepalese to either earn higher interest rates on Fixed Deposits or reduce their borrowing costs and minimize economic pains inflicted by the coronavirus pandemic. Nabil Bank is providing a 9% p.a. interest on individual fixed deposits for the tenure of 13 months to 24 months. One-year FDs can be opened at 8.5% p.a. Similarly, FDs with maturity period from 2 to 5 years yield a 9.25% interest while FDs with maturity period longer than 5 years give 9.50% interest p.a. These rates are a bit higher than what most banks now provide on fixed deposits.   Furthermore, Nabil Bank is offering 7.49% p.a. interest in retail home loans and 7.99% on mortgage loans. SME loans of up to Rs. 1 Crore will be provided at an interest of 7.49% p.a. In contrast, SME loans above Rs. 1 Crore have an interest rate of 7.99% p.a. The above lending rates will remain unchanged for a year. Nabil Bank has updated its interest rates on individual fixed deposits, small and medium enterprise (SME) loans, mortgage loans, and retail home loans. The bank claims that the ""festive offers"" are intended to help all Nepalese to either earn higher interest rates on Fixed Deposits or reduce their borrowing costs and minimize economic pains inflicted by the coronavirus pandemic. Nabil Bank is providing a 9% p.a. interest on individual fixed deposits for the tenure of 13 months to 24 months. One-year FDs can be opened at 8.5% p.a. Similarly, FDs with maturity period from 2 to 5 years yield a 9.25% interest while FDs with maturity period longer than 5 years give 9.50% interest p.a. These rates are a bit higher than what most banks now provide on fixed deposits.   Furthermore, Nabil Bank is offering 7.49% p.a. interest in retail home loans and 7.99% on mortgage loans. SME loans of up to Rs. 1 Crore will be provided at an interest of 7.49% p.a. In contrast, SME loans above Rs. 1 Crore have an interest rate of 7.99% p.a. The above lending rates will remain unchanged for a year. "
2020-09-16,Commercial Banks Update Interest Rates; Base Rates falling,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-update-interest-rates-base-rates-falling-2020-09-16,"A total of 14 commercial banks have published their interest rates profile today for the month of Ashwin. However, many of them have retained their previous rates. Thus, in this article, only the banks who have updated their rates will be mentioned. Furthermore, only those deposit or loan instruments whose rates have changed will be included. The base rate of Civil Bank Limited has decreased slightly to 9.51% from the previous 9.84%. While it previously provided 5.5% for deposit schemes, savings will now get only 4% interest, and only the Premium Saving Account will get 6%. Individuals who deposit their money in fixed deposits will now get interest payments in the range of 7.75% to 8.75%. Himalayan Bank Limited has also decreased the interest rates for savings schemes. While it previously provided interest in the range of 2.75% to 4.75%, the new range is now 2 - 4%. Interest for fixed deposits has also dropped. Individuals who deposit their money in the fixed deposit will now get interest payments in the range of 4% to 6% while institutions will get in that range of 3 - 5.5%. Individual depositors previously got interest payments in the range of 6 to 8.25% for fixed deposits and institutions got in the range of 6% to 7%. Similarly, depositors who previously got interest payments in the range of 3% to 5% depending on the savings scheme at NMB Bank will not only get interest payments in the range of 2.75% to 4.75%. Meanwhile, the higher limit of the interest rate for fixed deposits has increased to 8% from the previous 7.75% at Siddhartha Bank Limited. Similarly, Mega Bank's interest rates are in the range of 3% to 5% for savings. This range was 3.5% to 5% previously. The base rate of Mega Bank has declined slightly to 8.30% from the previous 8.32%. The base rate has also been reduced by Nepal Investment Bank Limited. Previously maintained at 7.88%, their base rate is now 7.49%. Interestingly, Nepal Investment Bank provides margin loans at a straight 9.99% interest rate. In contrast, Nabil Bank can give a 9.5% interest on fixed deposits for its longest range of maturity period. The base rate, which was previously maintained at 7.32% is now brought down to 7.19%. Depositors will get interest payments in the range of 2.5% to 4.5% interest rate at Nabil Bank.     A total of 14 commercial banks have published their interest rates profile today for the month of Ashwin. However, many of them have retained their previous rates. Thus, in this article, only the banks who have updated their rates will be mentioned. Furthermore, only those deposit or loan instruments whose rates have changed will be included. The base rate of Civil Bank Limited has decreased slightly to 9.51% from the previous 9.84%. While it previously provided 5.5% for deposit schemes, savings will now get only 4% interest, and only the Premium Saving Account will get 6%. Individuals who deposit their money in fixed deposits will now get interest payments in the range of 7.75% to 8.75%. Himalayan Bank Limited has also decreased the interest rates for savings schemes. While it previously provided interest in the range of 2.75% to 4.75%, the new range is now 2 - 4%. Interest for fixed deposits has also dropped. Individuals who deposit their money in the fixed deposit will now get interest payments in the range of 4% to 6% while institutions will get in that range of 3 - 5.5%. Individual depositors previously got interest payments in the range of 6 to 8.25% for fixed deposits and institutions got in the range of 6% to 7%. Similarly, depositors who previously got interest payments in the range of 3% to 5% depending on the savings scheme at NMB Bank will not only get interest payments in the range of 2.75% to 4.75%. Meanwhile, the higher limit of the interest rate for fixed deposits has increased to 8% from the previous 7.75% at Siddhartha Bank Limited. Similarly, Mega Bank's interest rates are in the range of 3% to 5% for savings. This range was 3.5% to 5% previously. The base rate of Mega Bank has declined slightly to 8.30% from the previous 8.32%. The base rate has also been reduced by Nepal Investment Bank Limited. Previously maintained at 7.88%, their base rate is now 7.49%. Interestingly, Nepal Investment Bank provides margin loans at a straight 9.99% interest rate. In contrast, Nabil Bank can give a 9.5% interest on fixed deposits for its longest range of maturity period. The base rate, which was previously maintained at 7.32% is now brought down to 7.19%. Depositors will get interest payments in the range of 2.5% to 4.5% interest rate at Nabil Bank.     A total of 14 commercial banks have published their interest rates profile today for the month of Ashwin. However, many of them have retained their previous rates. Thus, in this article, only the banks who have updated their rates will be mentioned. Furthermore, only those deposit or loan instruments whose rates have changed will be included. The base rate of Civil Bank Limited has decreased slightly to 9.51% from the previous 9.84%. While it previously provided 5.5% for deposit schemes, savings will now get only 4% interest, and only the Premium Saving Account will get 6%. Individuals who deposit their money in fixed deposits will now get interest payments in the range of 7.75% to 8.75%. Himalayan Bank Limited has also decreased the interest rates for savings schemes. While it previously provided interest in the range of 2.75% to 4.75%, the new range is now 2 - 4%. Interest for fixed deposits has also dropped. Individuals who deposit their money in the fixed deposit will now get interest payments in the range of 4% to 6% while institutions will get in that range of 3 - 5.5%. Individual depositors previously got interest payments in the range of 6 to 8.25% for fixed deposits and institutions got in the range of 6% to 7%. Similarly, depositors who previously got interest payments in the range of 3% to 5% depending on the savings scheme at NMB Bank will not only get interest payments in the range of 2.75% to 4.75%. Meanwhile, the higher limit of the interest rate for fixed deposits has increased to 8% from the previous 7.75% at Siddhartha Bank Limited. Similarly, Mega Bank's interest rates are in the range of 3% to 5% for savings. This range was 3.5% to 5% previously. The base rate of Mega Bank has declined slightly to 8.30% from the previous 8.32%. The base rate has also been reduced by Nepal Investment Bank Limited. Previously maintained at 7.88%, their base rate is now 7.49%. Interestingly, Nepal Investment Bank provides margin loans at a straight 9.99% interest rate. In contrast, Nabil Bank can give a 9.5% interest on fixed deposits for its longest range of maturity period. The base rate, which was previously maintained at 7.32% is now brought down to 7.19%. Depositors will get interest payments in the range of 2.5% to 4.5% interest rate at Nabil Bank.     "
2020-08-26,How efficient have commercial banks been in utilizing their assets and equity? Does your bank provide the highest return?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/roe-and-roa-of-q4-fy-20762077-for-commercial-bank-2020-08-26,"In the stock market, before investing in a stock, one has to go through different numbers from the financial report of a company to make sure the company’s financial health is great. For starters indicators such as Net profit, earnings per share, net worth per share, P/E ratio, Margin ratios are mandatory. These indicators give an idea about the financial strength of the company and its future prospects. However, the above-mentioned indicators fail to assess the efficiency of the company is utilizing its assets and equity. Both indicators are expressed in percentages. To make sure the company utilizes shareholders' money, Return on Equity (ROE) is an indicator to look at. ROE is calculated by dividing the net profit by total shareholders’ equity. The following table demonstrates the Return on Equity (ROE) of the company which is based on the latest data of Q4, 2076/2077.     The industry average ROE has decreased to 10.78% from 14.40% posted in the previous year. The highest ROE has been posted by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) at 18.11% while Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest ROE of 4.54%. The other indicator is the Return on Asset (ROA) which clarifies how the company is utilizing the asset of the company. ROA is calculated by dividing the net profit by the total asset. The following table demonstrates the Return on Asset (ROA) of the company which is based on the latest data of Q4, 2076/2077.     The industry average ROA has decreased to 1.23% from 1.81% posted in the previous year. The highest ROA has been posted by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) at 1.93% but the indicator has been decreased from 2.85%. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest ROA of 0.59% from 1.25% as per the Q4 of FY 2075/2076. Due to the economic distress created by the global pandemic, every indicator of the companies has been hit including ROE and ROA.                 In the stock market, before investing in a stock, one has to go through different numbers from the financial report of a company to make sure the company’s financial health is great. For starters indicators such as Net profit, earnings per share, net worth per share, P/E ratio, Margin ratios are mandatory. These indicators give an idea about the financial strength of the company and its future prospects. However, the above-mentioned indicators fail to assess the efficiency of the company is utilizing its assets and equity. Both indicators are expressed in percentages. To make sure the company utilizes shareholders' money, Return on Equity (ROE) is an indicator to look at. ROE is calculated by dividing the net profit by total shareholders’ equity. The following table demonstrates the Return on Equity (ROE) of the company which is based on the latest data of Q4, 2076/2077.     The industry average ROE has decreased to 10.78% from 14.40% posted in the previous year. The highest ROE has been posted by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) at 18.11% while Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest ROE of 4.54%. The other indicator is the Return on Asset (ROA) which clarifies how the company is utilizing the asset of the company. ROA is calculated by dividing the net profit by the total asset. The following table demonstrates the Return on Asset (ROA) of the company which is based on the latest data of Q4, 2076/2077.     The industry average ROA has decreased to 1.23% from 1.81% posted in the previous year. The highest ROA has been posted by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) at 1.93% but the indicator has been decreased from 2.85%. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest ROA of 0.59% from 1.25% as per the Q4 of FY 2075/2076. Due to the economic distress created by the global pandemic, every indicator of the companies has been hit including ROE and ROA.                 In the stock market, before investing in a stock, one has to go through different numbers from the financial report of a company to make sure the company’s financial health is great. For starters indicators such as Net profit, earnings per share, net worth per share, P/E ratio, Margin ratios are mandatory. These indicators give an idea about the financial strength of the company and its future prospects. However, the above-mentioned indicators fail to assess the efficiency of the company is utilizing its assets and equity. Both indicators are expressed in percentages. To make sure the company utilizes shareholders' money, Return on Equity (ROE) is an indicator to look at. ROE is calculated by dividing the net profit by total shareholders’ equity. The following table demonstrates the Return on Equity (ROE) of the company which is based on the latest data of Q4, 2076/2077.     The industry average ROE has decreased to 10.78% from 14.40% posted in the previous year. The highest ROE has been posted by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) at 18.11% while Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest ROE of 4.54%. The other indicator is the Return on Asset (ROA) which clarifies how the company is utilizing the asset of the company. ROA is calculated by dividing the net profit by the total asset. The following table demonstrates the Return on Asset (ROA) of the company which is based on the latest data of Q4, 2076/2077.     The industry average ROA has decreased to 1.23% from 1.81% posted in the previous year. The highest ROA has been posted by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) at 1.93% but the indicator has been decreased from 2.85%. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest ROA of 0.59% from 1.25% as per the Q4 of FY 2075/2076. Due to the economic distress created by the global pandemic, every indicator of the companies has been hit including ROE and ROA.                 "
2020-08-26,"Base rate, interest spread and cost of funds of commercial banks as of Q4 of FY 2076/77; Know which bank can offer loan at low interest rate",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-bank-base-rate-draft-2020-08-25,
2020-08-18,Nabil Bank to provide additional Interest Rebate; good borrowers to receive 0.25% rebate for the month of Shrawan,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-provide-additional-interest-rebate-good-borrowers-to-receive-025-rebate-for-the-month-of-shrawan,"Keeping in mind the fact that economic activities continue to be disrupted through the first month of the fiscal year, Nabil Bank has given a one-time rebate of 0.25% on the rate of interest for the month of Shrawan 2077 to all of its good loan customers. Mr. Anil Shah, Chief Executive Officer, stated, “Keeping in mind the continued difficulties faced by individual and institutional customers who have taken loans from Nabil Bank, we have given a rebate of 0.25% on the rate of interest charged to all our good loan customers. So regardless of which loan you have availed of from the Bank, whether an individual has taken an auto or a home loan, or a company has taken a hydro loan, or any other loans in between, if the loan repayments have been good, the Bank has given a rebate on the interest to be paid for the month of Shrawan 2077. This is in keeping with our commitment to always move Together Ahead, so that we can get through these difficult times.” The rebate amounts have already been adjusted when calculating the interest for the month of Shrawan and the benefit passed on to the customer. The Bank has recently made the highest contribution of Rs. 6 crores to the Coronavirus Sankraman Roktham, Niyantran Tatha Upachar Kosh. Likewise, the Bank currently has plans to establish Nabil Infectious Disease Prevention, Control and Collaboration Center (NIDPC) in all 7 provinces as an initiative to control and fight such pandemics. Keeping in mind the fact that economic activities continue to be disrupted through the first month of the fiscal year, Nabil Bank has given a one-time rebate of 0.25% on the rate of interest for the month of Shrawan 2077 to all of its good loan customers. Mr. Anil Shah, Chief Executive Officer, stated, “Keeping in mind the continued difficulties faced by individual and institutional customers who have taken loans from Nabil Bank, we have given a rebate of 0.25% on the rate of interest charged to all our good loan customers. So regardless of which loan you have availed of from the Bank, whether an individual has taken an auto or a home loan, or a company has taken a hydro loan, or any other loans in between, if the loan repayments have been good, the Bank has given a rebate on the interest to be paid for the month of Shrawan 2077. This is in keeping with our commitment to always move Together Ahead, so that we can get through these difficult times.” The rebate amounts have already been adjusted when calculating the interest for the month of Shrawan and the benefit passed on to the customer. The Bank has recently made the highest contribution of Rs. 6 crores to the Coronavirus Sankraman Roktham, Niyantran Tatha Upachar Kosh. Likewise, the Bank currently has plans to establish Nabil Infectious Disease Prevention, Control and Collaboration Center (NIDPC) in all 7 provinces as an initiative to control and fight such pandemics. Keeping in mind the fact that economic activities continue to be disrupted through the first month of the fiscal year, Nabil Bank has given a one-time rebate of 0.25% on the rate of interest for the month of Shrawan 2077 to all of its good loan customers. Mr. Anil Shah, Chief Executive Officer, stated, “Keeping in mind the continued difficulties faced by individual and institutional customers who have taken loans from Nabil Bank, we have given a rebate of 0.25% on the rate of interest charged to all our good loan customers. So regardless of which loan you have availed of from the Bank, whether an individual has taken an auto or a home loan, or a company has taken a hydro loan, or any other loans in between, if the loan repayments have been good, the Bank has given a rebate on the interest to be paid for the month of Shrawan 2077. This is in keeping with our commitment to always move Together Ahead, so that we can get through these difficult times.” The rebate amounts have already been adjusted when calculating the interest for the month of Shrawan and the benefit passed on to the customer. The Bank has recently made the highest contribution of Rs. 6 crores to the Coronavirus Sankraman Roktham, Niyantran Tatha Upachar Kosh. Likewise, the Bank currently has plans to establish Nabil Infectious Disease Prevention, Control and Collaboration Center (NIDPC) in all 7 provinces as an initiative to control and fight such pandemics. "
2020-08-16,Commercial banks compromised their profit as they set side huge amount for loan provisions! Find out commercial banks' performance this year!,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-compromised-their-profit-as-they-set-side-huge-amount-for-loan-provisions-find-out-commercial-banks-performance-this-year,"Every disaster can be an opportunity. Every difficult time brings out new innovation. The coronavirus pandemic has hit every sector very hard. The banking sector is no different. However, the banking sector did not come up with a lot of innovations during the pandemic. Customer service is one segment of Nepali banking that has always been criticized. This could have been a great opportunity for banks to come up with alliances, third party collaboration, integration with startups to make banking convenient for customers. However, Nepali banks only focused on e-banking throughout the pandemic and did not make a substantial effort to broaden the banking reach to present and prospective customers. The financial performance of banks is the reflection of how the year has gone so far. Let us find out how Nepali banks have performed this year amidst the pandemic.   As per the net profit of fourth quarter of FY 2076/77, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB)  is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 4.45 arba. Similarly, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 3.57 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Agricultural Development Bank (ADBL) has a net profit of Rs 3.47 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 46 crore. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 2.01 arba. All commercial banks except five have reduced net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last year. Banks have set aside a significant amounts for impairment charges due to the pandemic, therefore, reflected a negative change in profit in their financial statement.   *GBIME, KBL and CZBIL this year profit figure excludes profit of merged/acquired entities till merger/acquisition date of then Janata Bank, Deva Bikas Bank and Sahayogi Bikas Bank respectively. The total net profit for the year is Rs 54.32 arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 65.40 arba. The overall industry net profit has increased by only 11% i.e. 4.55 arba. Distributable profit: As per the distributable profit of a fourth quarter of 2076/77, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)   is in the lead with a profit of Rs 3.04 arba. Similarly,  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 2.21 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a net profit of Rs 1.73 arba. All banks except Prime Commercial Bank Limited have shown a negative change in distributable profit. Similarly, 26 out of 27 commercial banks’ distributable profit has decreased. The major reason behind the unfavorable profit figure is the postponement of loan payment that was due in Chaitra, 2076 by the commercial banks. Nepal Rastra Bank has asked commercial banks to consider the rescheduling of loan payment for borrowers.     *GBIME and KBL this year distributable profit figure includes the distributable profit of merged/acquired entities of then Janata Bank and Deva Bikas Bank respectively till merger/acquisition date. Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 17.46 arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Nepal Investment Bank has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 1.88 arba followed by Global IME Bank and NMB Bank with Rs 1.74 arba and Rs 1.61 arba respectively. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital are Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 18.98 arba capital and Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 14.25 arba paid-up capital. Note: ADBL’s paid-up capital stands at Rs 14.44 arba which includes Rs 9.55 arba from ordinary shares and Rs 5.43 arba from irredeemable preference share.   With an industry average of Rs 7.21 arba, nine banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 7.21 arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks is at Rs 1.94 kharba which was Rs 1.86 kharba last year in the same quarter. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 17.11 arba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained the second position with Rs 15.70 arba reserve and surplus fund.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 14.44 arba.   In average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.24 kharba as a deposit. Only 13 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the fourth quarter of FY 2076/77, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.30 kharba Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has second-highest deposits of Rs 2.12 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.01 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 57.51 arba only. Banks had to decrease their interest rates on deposit. Coronavirus pandemic has hit a lot of businesses that have taken a loan from several banks. Commercial banks needed to decrease the interest rates on loans to lessen the impact of the pandemic on several businesses and corporate houses so, depositors had to compromise with a lower interest rate on their deposits during the pandemic.   In today’s context, the concern of investor simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of loan portfolio equally matters. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.89 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.60 kharba. Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.50 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 51.51 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.03 kharba. 13 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 1.03 kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans in order to support the government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting an application for a loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies, and public transportation by rescheduling their loan payment. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) with an income of Rs 9.32 arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 8.19 arba and NICA Bank Limited (NICA)  with an income of Rs 7.60 arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 4.77 arba. 10 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has also the highest comprehensive income of Rs 4.59 arba.  NICA Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.30 arba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.15 arba.   Major indicators: Rastra Banijaya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 49.45 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 35.32 per share. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 32.88 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 5.71 per share.   *GBIME, KBL, and CZBIL this year EPS figure excludes profit of merged/acquired entities till merger/acquisition date of then Janata Bank, Deva Bikas Bank, and Sahayogi Bikas Bank respectively. The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 19.68. 9 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 267.50 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the second position with Rs 260.38. NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q4 of FY 2076/77 i.e. Rs 255.72. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the least net worth of Rs 125.85 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 171.25 per share. 9 companies have net worth more than the industry average. Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the least PE ratio of 10.99 times. It is followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with PE ratio of 11.71 times. 14 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 17.02 times. The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter-end.   Nepalese banks have both opportunities and threats in this pandemic. A bigger question is how will banks sustain with the same number of employees and the same salary level while a key factor remittance related fees will be absent in the upcoming quarter. Similarly, Nepalese banks have an opportunity to promote services such as cash delivery, easy access to cash deposits, and create web-based secured software for internal bank related works and help the country by investing in highly productive sectors. Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the fourth quarter of FY 2076/77:  Every disaster can be an opportunity. Every difficult time brings out new innovation. The coronavirus pandemic has hit every sector very hard. The banking sector is no different. However, the banking sector did not come up with a lot of innovations during the pandemic. Customer service is one segment of Nepali banking that has always been criticized. This could have been a great opportunity for banks to come up with alliances, third party collaboration, integration with startups to make banking convenient for customers. However, Nepali banks only focused on e-banking throughout the pandemic and did not make a substantial effort to broaden the banking reach to present and prospective customers. The financial performance of banks is the reflection of how the year has gone so far. Let us find out how Nepali banks have performed this year amidst the pandemic.   As per the net profit of fourth quarter of FY 2076/77, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB)  is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 4.45 arba. Similarly, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 3.57 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Agricultural Development Bank (ADBL) has a net profit of Rs 3.47 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 46 crore. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 2.01 arba. All commercial banks except five have reduced net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last year. Banks have set aside a significant amounts for impairment charges due to the pandemic, therefore, reflected a negative change in profit in their financial statement.   *GBIME, KBL and CZBIL this year profit figure excludes profit of merged/acquired entities till merger/acquisition date of then Janata Bank, Deva Bikas Bank and Sahayogi Bikas Bank respectively. The total net profit for the year is Rs 54.32 arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 65.40 arba. The overall industry net profit has increased by only 11% i.e. 4.55 arba. Distributable profit: As per the distributable profit of a fourth quarter of 2076/77, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)   is in the lead with a profit of Rs 3.04 arba. Similarly,  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 2.21 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a net profit of Rs 1.73 arba. All banks except Prime Commercial Bank Limited have shown a negative change in distributable profit. Similarly, 26 out of 27 commercial banks’ distributable profit has decreased. The major reason behind the unfavorable profit figure is the postponement of loan payment that was due in Chaitra, 2076 by the commercial banks. Nepal Rastra Bank has asked commercial banks to consider the rescheduling of loan payment for borrowers.     *GBIME and KBL this year distributable profit figure includes the distributable profit of merged/acquired entities of then Janata Bank and Deva Bikas Bank respectively till merger/acquisition date. Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 17.46 arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Nepal Investment Bank has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 1.88 arba followed by Global IME Bank and NMB Bank with Rs 1.74 arba and Rs 1.61 arba respectively. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital are Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 18.98 arba capital and Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 14.25 arba paid-up capital. Note: ADBL’s paid-up capital stands at Rs 14.44 arba which includes Rs 9.55 arba from ordinary shares and Rs 5.43 arba from irredeemable preference share.   With an industry average of Rs 7.21 arba, nine banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 7.21 arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks is at Rs 1.94 kharba which was Rs 1.86 kharba last year in the same quarter. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 17.11 arba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained the second position with Rs 15.70 arba reserve and surplus fund.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 14.44 arba.   In average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.24 kharba as a deposit. Only 13 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the fourth quarter of FY 2076/77, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.30 kharba Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has second-highest deposits of Rs 2.12 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.01 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 57.51 arba only. Banks had to decrease their interest rates on deposit. Coronavirus pandemic has hit a lot of businesses that have taken a loan from several banks. Commercial banks needed to decrease the interest rates on loans to lessen the impact of the pandemic on several businesses and corporate houses so, depositors had to compromise with a lower interest rate on their deposits during the pandemic.   In today’s context, the concern of investor simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of loan portfolio equally matters. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.89 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.60 kharba. Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.50 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 51.51 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.03 kharba. 13 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 1.03 kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans in order to support the government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting an application for a loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies, and public transportation by rescheduling their loan payment. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) with an income of Rs 9.32 arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 8.19 arba and NICA Bank Limited (NICA)  with an income of Rs 7.60 arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 4.77 arba. 10 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has also the highest comprehensive income of Rs 4.59 arba.  NICA Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.30 arba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.15 arba.   Major indicators: Rastra Banijaya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 49.45 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 35.32 per share. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 32.88 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 5.71 per share.   *GBIME, KBL, and CZBIL this year EPS figure excludes profit of merged/acquired entities till merger/acquisition date of then Janata Bank, Deva Bikas Bank, and Sahayogi Bikas Bank respectively. The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 19.68. 9 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 267.50 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the second position with Rs 260.38. NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q4 of FY 2076/77 i.e. Rs 255.72. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the least net worth of Rs 125.85 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 171.25 per share. 9 companies have net worth more than the industry average. Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the least PE ratio of 10.99 times. It is followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with PE ratio of 11.71 times. 14 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 17.02 times. The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter-end.   Nepalese banks have both opportunities and threats in this pandemic. A bigger question is how will banks sustain with the same number of employees and the same salary level while a key factor remittance related fees will be absent in the upcoming quarter. Similarly, Nepalese banks have an opportunity to promote services such as cash delivery, easy access to cash deposits, and create web-based secured software for internal bank related works and help the country by investing in highly productive sectors. Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the fourth quarter of FY 2076/77:  Every disaster can be an opportunity. Every difficult time brings out new innovation. The coronavirus pandemic has hit every sector very hard. The banking sector is no different. However, the banking sector did not come up with a lot of innovations during the pandemic. Customer service is one segment of Nepali banking that has always been criticized. This could have been a great opportunity for banks to come up with alliances, third party collaboration, integration with startups to make banking convenient for customers. However, Nepali banks only focused on e-banking throughout the pandemic and did not make a substantial effort to broaden the banking reach to present and prospective customers. The financial performance of banks is the reflection of how the year has gone so far. Let us find out how Nepali banks have performed this year amidst the pandemic.   As per the net profit of fourth quarter of FY 2076/77, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB)  is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 4.45 arba. Similarly, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 3.57 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Agricultural Development Bank (ADBL) has a net profit of Rs 3.47 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 46 crore. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 2.01 arba. All commercial banks except five have reduced net profit this year compared to the same quarter of last year. Banks have set aside a significant amounts for impairment charges due to the pandemic, therefore, reflected a negative change in profit in their financial statement.   *GBIME, KBL and CZBIL this year profit figure excludes profit of merged/acquired entities till merger/acquisition date of then Janata Bank, Deva Bikas Bank and Sahayogi Bikas Bank respectively. The total net profit for the year is Rs 54.32 arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was Rs 65.40 arba. The overall industry net profit has increased by only 11% i.e. 4.55 arba. Distributable profit: As per the distributable profit of a fourth quarter of 2076/77, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)   is in the lead with a profit of Rs 3.04 arba. Similarly,  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the second-highest net profit of Rs 2.21 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has a net profit of Rs 1.73 arba. All banks except Prime Commercial Bank Limited have shown a negative change in distributable profit. Similarly, 26 out of 27 commercial banks’ distributable profit has decreased. The major reason behind the unfavorable profit figure is the postponement of loan payment that was due in Chaitra, 2076 by the commercial banks. Nepal Rastra Bank has asked commercial banks to consider the rescheduling of loan payment for borrowers.     *GBIME and KBL this year distributable profit figure includes the distributable profit of merged/acquired entities of then Janata Bank and Deva Bikas Bank respectively till merger/acquisition date. Banks have set aside a certain amount in loan loss provision and have delayed loan repayment of several borrowers. A total of Rs 17.46 arba of amount has been shown in an impairment charge for a loan and other losses. Nepal Investment Bank has the highest impairment charge for a loan and other losses with Rs 1.88 arba followed by Global IME Bank and NMB Bank with Rs 1.74 arba and Rs 1.61 arba respectively. Paid-up capital: Paid-up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with the highest paid-up capital are Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 18.98 arba capital and Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 14.25 arba paid-up capital. Note: ADBL’s paid-up capital stands at Rs 14.44 arba which includes Rs 9.55 arba from ordinary shares and Rs 5.43 arba from irredeemable preference share.   With an industry average of Rs 7.21 arba, nine banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 7.21 arba in their reserve fund. The total reserve and surplus of all commercial banks is at Rs 1.94 kharba which was Rs 1.86 kharba last year in the same quarter. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 17.11 arba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained the second position with Rs 15.70 arba reserve and surplus fund.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 14.44 arba.   In average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.24 kharba as a deposit. Only 13 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the fourth quarter of FY 2076/77, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.30 kharba Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has second-highest deposits of Rs 2.12 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with the collected deposit of Rs 2.01 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 57.51 arba only. Banks had to decrease their interest rates on deposit. Coronavirus pandemic has hit a lot of businesses that have taken a loan from several banks. Commercial banks needed to decrease the interest rates on loans to lessen the impact of the pandemic on several businesses and corporate houses so, depositors had to compromise with a lower interest rate on their deposits during the pandemic.   In today’s context, the concern of investor simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of loan portfolio equally matters. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME)  with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.89 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.60 kharba. Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.50 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 51.51 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.03 kharba. 13 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 1.03 kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by the second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans in order to support the government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting an application for a loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies, and public transportation by rescheduling their loan payment. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with the highest net interest income is Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) with an income of Rs 9.32 arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with an income of Rs 8.19 arba and NICA Bank Limited (NICA)  with an income of Rs 7.60 arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 4.77 arba. 10 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has also the highest comprehensive income of Rs 4.59 arba.  NICA Bank Limited (NICA) has the second-highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.30 arba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the third-highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.15 arba.   Major indicators: Rastra Banijaya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with the highest annualized EPS of Rs 49.45 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second-highest EPS of Rs 35.32 per share. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 32.88 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 5.71 per share.   *GBIME, KBL, and CZBIL this year EPS figure excludes profit of merged/acquired entities till merger/acquisition date of then Janata Bank, Deva Bikas Bank, and Sahayogi Bikas Bank respectively. The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 19.68. 9 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 267.50 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the second position with Rs 260.38. NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third-highest net worth per share as of Q4 of FY 2076/77 i.e. Rs 255.72. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the least net worth of Rs 125.85 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 171.25 per share. 9 companies have net worth more than the industry average. Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the least PE ratio of 10.99 times. It is followed by Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with PE ratio of 11.71 times. 14 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 17.02 times. The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter-end.   Nepalese banks have both opportunities and threats in this pandemic. A bigger question is how will banks sustain with the same number of employees and the same salary level while a key factor remittance related fees will be absent in the upcoming quarter. Similarly, Nepalese banks have an opportunity to promote services such as cash delivery, easy access to cash deposits, and create web-based secured software for internal bank related works and help the country by investing in highly productive sectors. Finally, the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the fourth quarter of FY 2076/77:  "
2020-08-13,Nabil Bank Urges Investors to Claim Cash Dividend Due of FY 2070/71,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-urges-investors-to-claim-cash-dividend-due-of-fy-207071,"Nabil Bank Limited has urged its shareholders to claim the uncollected cash dividend of FY 2070/71. The names of investors who have not claimed their dividend for that fiscal year can be accessed via Nabil Bank's official website, nabilbank.com. If the investors fail to claim the dividend within 30 days after this notice is issued, the dividend will be deposited in the Investors Protection Fund. Nabil Bank had distributed 20% bonus shares and a 45% cash dividend for the fiscal year 2070/71. Nabil Bank Limited has urged its shareholders to claim the uncollected cash dividend of FY 2070/71. The names of investors who have not claimed their dividend for that fiscal year can be accessed via Nabil Bank's official website, nabilbank.com. If the investors fail to claim the dividend within 30 days after this notice is issued, the dividend will be deposited in the Investors Protection Fund. Nabil Bank had distributed 20% bonus shares and a 45% cash dividend for the fiscal year 2070/71. Nabil Bank Limited has urged its shareholders to claim the uncollected cash dividend of FY 2070/71. The names of investors who have not claimed their dividend for that fiscal year can be accessed via Nabil Bank's official website, nabilbank.com. If the investors fail to claim the dividend within 30 days after this notice is issued, the dividend will be deposited in the Investors Protection Fund. Nabil Bank had distributed 20% bonus shares and a 45% cash dividend for the fiscal year 2070/71. "
2020-08-13,Banking giant Nabil Bank's earns Rs 3.56 arba in Q4 with 15.86% decline; has 30% dividend distribution capacity from FY 2076/77 earnings,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/banking-giant-nabil-banks-earns-rs-356-arba-in-q4-with-1586-decline-has-30-dividend-distribution-capacity-from-fy-207677-earnings,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its fourth-quarter report for the FY 2076/2077 with a decline in Net Profit by 15.86%. The bank’s net profit has declined from Rs. 4.23 Arba in the fourth quarter of the FY 2075/2076 to Rs. 3.56 Arba in the fourth quarter of FY 2076/2077. The decline in net profit is mainly due to the high impairment charge (provision) for loans and other losses and increased personnel expenses. The company’s operating profit has decreased by 15.48% to Rs. 5.09 Arba in the fourth quarter in FY 2076/2077 compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank has Rs. 3.04 arba as a Distributable profit after P/L appropriation and regulatory requirements in the fourth quarter. This means NABIL can distribute around 30% (approx.) dividends from the earnings of FY 2076/77 if other regulatory requirements are not required. However, as per NRB circular, the interest amount which cannot be recovered in Q4 of 2076/77 can be shown in this year's balance sheet if it is recovered till Q1 of FY 2077/78. So the distributable amount might be slightly changed. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 17.09% to Rs. 1.90 kharba whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 16.26% to Rs. 1.48 kharba till the fourth quarter. The net interest income (Core business income) of the bank has decreased by 1.94% to Rs. 7.02 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 10.09 Arba with Rs. 15.70 Arba as its reserves and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) slightly increased to 0.97% from 0.74% in the corresponding quarter. The EPS of the bank in the fourth quarter of FY 2076/2077 stood at Rs. 35.32. The Net worth per share stands at Rs. 255.52 and Qtr End PE ratio stands at 21.66 times. Click here for Q4 report: Major Highlights:  * Published EPS, Networth and PE may differ. As per NFRS standard, the Weighted average number of shares is taken while calculating EPS, Networth, and PE but we have taken a number of shares as per Q4 end paid-up capital.   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its fourth-quarter report for the FY 2076/2077 with a decline in Net Profit by 15.86%. The bank’s net profit has declined from Rs. 4.23 Arba in the fourth quarter of the FY 2075/2076 to Rs. 3.56 Arba in the fourth quarter of FY 2076/2077. The decline in net profit is mainly due to the high impairment charge (provision) for loans and other losses and increased personnel expenses. The company’s operating profit has decreased by 15.48% to Rs. 5.09 Arba in the fourth quarter in FY 2076/2077 compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank has Rs. 3.04 arba as a Distributable profit after P/L appropriation and regulatory requirements in the fourth quarter. This means NABIL can distribute around 30% (approx.) dividends from the earnings of FY 2076/77 if other regulatory requirements are not required. However, as per NRB circular, the interest amount which cannot be recovered in Q4 of 2076/77 can be shown in this year's balance sheet if it is recovered till Q1 of FY 2077/78. So the distributable amount might be slightly changed. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 17.09% to Rs. 1.90 kharba whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 16.26% to Rs. 1.48 kharba till the fourth quarter. The net interest income (Core business income) of the bank has decreased by 1.94% to Rs. 7.02 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 10.09 Arba with Rs. 15.70 Arba as its reserves and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) slightly increased to 0.97% from 0.74% in the corresponding quarter. The EPS of the bank in the fourth quarter of FY 2076/2077 stood at Rs. 35.32. The Net worth per share stands at Rs. 255.52 and Qtr End PE ratio stands at 21.66 times. Click here for Q4 report: Major Highlights:  * Published EPS, Networth and PE may differ. As per NFRS standard, the Weighted average number of shares is taken while calculating EPS, Networth, and PE but we have taken a number of shares as per Q4 end paid-up capital.   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its fourth-quarter report for the FY 2076/2077 with a decline in Net Profit by 15.86%. The bank’s net profit has declined from Rs. 4.23 Arba in the fourth quarter of the FY 2075/2076 to Rs. 3.56 Arba in the fourth quarter of FY 2076/2077. The decline in net profit is mainly due to the high impairment charge (provision) for loans and other losses and increased personnel expenses. The company’s operating profit has decreased by 15.48% to Rs. 5.09 Arba in the fourth quarter in FY 2076/2077 compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank has Rs. 3.04 arba as a Distributable profit after P/L appropriation and regulatory requirements in the fourth quarter. This means NABIL can distribute around 30% (approx.) dividends from the earnings of FY 2076/77 if other regulatory requirements are not required. However, as per NRB circular, the interest amount which cannot be recovered in Q4 of 2076/77 can be shown in this year's balance sheet if it is recovered till Q1 of FY 2077/78. So the distributable amount might be slightly changed. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 17.09% to Rs. 1.90 kharba whereas loans and advances to customers increased by 16.26% to Rs. 1.48 kharba till the fourth quarter. The net interest income (Core business income) of the bank has decreased by 1.94% to Rs. 7.02 Arba compared to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The bank’s paid-up capital stands at Rs. 10.09 Arba with Rs. 15.70 Arba as its reserves and surplus. The Non-performing loan (NPL) slightly increased to 0.97% from 0.74% in the corresponding quarter. The EPS of the bank in the fourth quarter of FY 2076/2077 stood at Rs. 35.32. The Net worth per share stands at Rs. 255.52 and Qtr End PE ratio stands at 21.66 times. Click here for Q4 report: Major Highlights:  * Published EPS, Networth and PE may differ. As per NFRS standard, the Weighted average number of shares is taken while calculating EPS, Networth, and PE but we have taken a number of shares as per Q4 end paid-up capital.   "
2020-08-05,"Former Jyoti Bikas Bank CEO Manoj Gyawali Appointed as DGM of Nabil Bank, Taking Office from Today",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/former-jyoti-bikas-bank-ceo-manoj-gyawali-appointed-as-dgm-of-nabil-bank-taking-office-from-today,"Banker Manoj Gyawali has been appointed as the Deputy General Manager (DGM) of Nabil Bank. He has resigned from the post of Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Jyoti Bikas Bank and has taken office as the DGM of Nabil Bank. Gyawali resigned from the post of CEO of Jyoti Bikas Bank on Baisakh 11, 2077 when he still had two years left in his term. Gyawali, who has worked in various departments of Nepal Rastra Bank as an officer for about five years, has also served for about 8 years as the head of various departments in Commercial Banking. Gyawali also has experience as a director and managing director in Merchant Banking. Furthermore, he has worked in the hydropower sector for a year and in Development Banking as the Deputy Chief Executive Officer for two years. Banker Manoj Gyawali has been appointed as the Deputy General Manager (DGM) of Nabil Bank. He has resigned from the post of Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Jyoti Bikas Bank and has taken office as the DGM of Nabil Bank. Gyawali resigned from the post of CEO of Jyoti Bikas Bank on Baisakh 11, 2077 when he still had two years left in his term. Gyawali, who has worked in various departments of Nepal Rastra Bank as an officer for about five years, has also served for about 8 years as the head of various departments in Commercial Banking. Gyawali also has experience as a director and managing director in Merchant Banking. Furthermore, he has worked in the hydropower sector for a year and in Development Banking as the Deputy Chief Executive Officer for two years. Banker Manoj Gyawali has been appointed as the Deputy General Manager (DGM) of Nabil Bank. He has resigned from the post of Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Jyoti Bikas Bank and has taken office as the DGM of Nabil Bank. Gyawali resigned from the post of CEO of Jyoti Bikas Bank on Baisakh 11, 2077 when he still had two years left in his term. Gyawali, who has worked in various departments of Nepal Rastra Bank as an officer for about five years, has also served for about 8 years as the head of various departments in Commercial Banking. Gyawali also has experience as a director and managing director in Merchant Banking. Furthermore, he has worked in the hydropower sector for a year and in Development Banking as the Deputy Chief Executive Officer for two years. "
2020-08-02,Nabil Bank bags ‘Nepal’s Best Bank’ award from Euromoney for the second time in a row,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-bags-nepals-best-bank-award-from-euromoney-for-the-second-time-in-a-row,"Nabil Bank Ltd has won the award entitled ‘Nepal’s Best Bank’ under the Euromoney magazine’s Awards for Excellence, one of the renowned magazines of Britain. The award is being distributed on the basis of services, profit growth among other growths of the bank. Amid this, Nabil Bank Ltd has succeeded to be recognized by this award this year also the same as last year. Euromoney’s Awards for Excellence was introduced the first time in 1992. Since then, the Euromoney is distributing awards to the international, regional, and national level banks for their contribution in banking services. Nabil bank has been providing banking services since 1984 via its 118 branches, 175 ATM booths, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents across the country. Nabil bank has been playing a major role on introducing novel services in the banking sector of the country. Nabil Bank Ltd has won the award entitled ‘Nepal’s Best Bank’ under the Euromoney magazine’s Awards for Excellence, one of the renowned magazines of Britain. The award is being distributed on the basis of services, profit growth among other growths of the bank. Amid this, Nabil Bank Ltd has succeeded to be recognized by this award this year also the same as last year. Euromoney’s Awards for Excellence was introduced the first time in 1992. Since then, the Euromoney is distributing awards to the international, regional, and national level banks for their contribution in banking services. Nabil bank has been providing banking services since 1984 via its 118 branches, 175 ATM booths, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents across the country. Nabil bank has been playing a major role on introducing novel services in the banking sector of the country. Nabil Bank Ltd has won the award entitled ‘Nepal’s Best Bank’ under the Euromoney magazine’s Awards for Excellence, one of the renowned magazines of Britain. The award is being distributed on the basis of services, profit growth among other growths of the bank. Amid this, Nabil Bank Ltd has succeeded to be recognized by this award this year also the same as last year. Euromoney’s Awards for Excellence was introduced the first time in 1992. Since then, the Euromoney is distributing awards to the international, regional, and national level banks for their contribution in banking services. Nabil bank has been providing banking services since 1984 via its 118 branches, 175 ATM booths, and more than 1,500 Nabil Remit Agents across the country. Nabil bank has been playing a major role on introducing novel services in the banking sector of the country. "
2020-07-29,Nabil Bank launches innovative Scan&Withdraw service; customers can use QR code based system to withdraw cash at bank’s teller counters,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-innovative-scanwithdraw-service-customers-can-use-qr-code-based-system-to-withdraw-cash-at-banks-teller-counters,"Nabil Bank has launched the Scan & Withdraw, a QR based cash withdrawal facility on Tuesday. This facility allows the Bank’s valued customers to withdraw cash amount up to NPR. 100,000 per day and NPR. 1,000,000 per month from teller counter without drawing cheque. Customers can scan QR code placed at the teller counter using Nabil SmartBank App and withdraw required amount using their mobile banking transaction PIN. Currently this service is available from Kathmandu valley branches only and soon the service will be available from all branches of Nabil Bank. During ongoing pandemic, we are committed to ensure health and safety of our customers. With QR Cash withdrawal facility, there will be reduced contact of customers with the teller as accounting is automatically executed in Banking system and Bank teller just needs to handover cash to the customer. This service will not just enhance digital banking behavior of our customers, but also provide them flexibility and capability to withdraw cash even when they have forgotten to carry their cheque book/ATM card. This service is expected to reduce queue at teller counters by reducing turnaround time of processing customers’ request for cash. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank said, “In this trying time, encashing cheque or any form of physical contact poses health risks. With Scan&withdraw, we want to make sure that physical contact of customers with Bank teller is less and cash withdrawal request processing is quick.” Nabil Bank has launched the Scan & Withdraw, a QR based cash withdrawal facility on Tuesday. This facility allows the Bank’s valued customers to withdraw cash amount up to NPR. 100,000 per day and NPR. 1,000,000 per month from teller counter without drawing cheque. Customers can scan QR code placed at the teller counter using Nabil SmartBank App and withdraw required amount using their mobile banking transaction PIN. Currently this service is available from Kathmandu valley branches only and soon the service will be available from all branches of Nabil Bank. During ongoing pandemic, we are committed to ensure health and safety of our customers. With QR Cash withdrawal facility, there will be reduced contact of customers with the teller as accounting is automatically executed in Banking system and Bank teller just needs to handover cash to the customer. This service will not just enhance digital banking behavior of our customers, but also provide them flexibility and capability to withdraw cash even when they have forgotten to carry their cheque book/ATM card. This service is expected to reduce queue at teller counters by reducing turnaround time of processing customers’ request for cash. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank said, “In this trying time, encashing cheque or any form of physical contact poses health risks. With Scan&withdraw, we want to make sure that physical contact of customers with Bank teller is less and cash withdrawal request processing is quick.” Nabil Bank has launched the Scan & Withdraw, a QR based cash withdrawal facility on Tuesday. This facility allows the Bank’s valued customers to withdraw cash amount up to NPR. 100,000 per day and NPR. 1,000,000 per month from teller counter without drawing cheque. Customers can scan QR code placed at the teller counter using Nabil SmartBank App and withdraw required amount using their mobile banking transaction PIN. Currently this service is available from Kathmandu valley branches only and soon the service will be available from all branches of Nabil Bank. During ongoing pandemic, we are committed to ensure health and safety of our customers. With QR Cash withdrawal facility, there will be reduced contact of customers with the teller as accounting is automatically executed in Banking system and Bank teller just needs to handover cash to the customer. This service will not just enhance digital banking behavior of our customers, but also provide them flexibility and capability to withdraw cash even when they have forgotten to carry their cheque book/ATM card. This service is expected to reduce queue at teller counters by reducing turnaround time of processing customers’ request for cash. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank said, “In this trying time, encashing cheque or any form of physical contact poses health risks. With Scan&withdraw, we want to make sure that physical contact of customers with Bank teller is less and cash withdrawal request processing is quick.” "
2020-07-21,"10% Nabil Debenture 2082 listed on NEPSE; 1,05,861.62 units Promoter Shares of Mithila Laghubitta  converted to Public Share",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/10-nabil-debenture-2082-listed-on-nepse-10586162-units-promoter-shares-of-mithila-laghubitta-converted-to-public-share,"Upon the successful issuance of Nabil Debenture 2082, Nabil Bank has now listed the debenture in Nepal Stock Exchange. Nabil Bank’s CEO, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, and NEPSE’ CEO, Mr. Chandra Singh Saud have signed a debenture listing agreement on July 21, 2020 in NEPSE’s office.  As per the notice; 2,000,00 units ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" of Nabil Bank Limited have been listed on NEPSE for regular trading. In compliance with Nepal Rastra Bank’s regulatory requirement for issuance of debenture, Nabil Bank had issued 2 million units of 7 years Nabil Debenture 2082 with an interest rate of 10% per annum. The interest on the same is payable on the half-yearly basis of each fiscal year until the maturity of the Debenture. The issue was for the size of NPR 2 Billion with 60% (NPR 1.2 Billion) to be sold through Private Placement and 40% (NPR 800 Million) was set aside for public including Mutual Fund. Amidst the difficult situation of lockdown caused by COVID - 19 pandemics, the issue which was opened on Chaitra 2, 2076 was successfully closed on Baisakh 16, 2077 with 100% subscription. The Debenture was subscribed by many insurance companies, mutual funds, retirement funds, and welfare funds. Likewise; 1,05,861.62 units Promoter Shares of Mithila Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (MLBBL) has been converted into Public Share, making the Promoter to Public Share Ratio of the Company to  60:40. Upon the successful issuance of Nabil Debenture 2082, Nabil Bank has now listed the debenture in Nepal Stock Exchange. Nabil Bank’s CEO, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, and NEPSE’ CEO, Mr. Chandra Singh Saud have signed a debenture listing agreement on July 21, 2020 in NEPSE’s office.  As per the notice; 2,000,00 units ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" of Nabil Bank Limited have been listed on NEPSE for regular trading. In compliance with Nepal Rastra Bank’s regulatory requirement for issuance of debenture, Nabil Bank had issued 2 million units of 7 years Nabil Debenture 2082 with an interest rate of 10% per annum. The interest on the same is payable on the half-yearly basis of each fiscal year until the maturity of the Debenture. The issue was for the size of NPR 2 Billion with 60% (NPR 1.2 Billion) to be sold through Private Placement and 40% (NPR 800 Million) was set aside for public including Mutual Fund. Amidst the difficult situation of lockdown caused by COVID - 19 pandemics, the issue which was opened on Chaitra 2, 2076 was successfully closed on Baisakh 16, 2077 with 100% subscription. The Debenture was subscribed by many insurance companies, mutual funds, retirement funds, and welfare funds. Likewise; 1,05,861.62 units Promoter Shares of Mithila Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (MLBBL) has been converted into Public Share, making the Promoter to Public Share Ratio of the Company to  60:40. Upon the successful issuance of Nabil Debenture 2082, Nabil Bank has now listed the debenture in Nepal Stock Exchange. Nabil Bank’s CEO, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, and NEPSE’ CEO, Mr. Chandra Singh Saud have signed a debenture listing agreement on July 21, 2020 in NEPSE’s office.  As per the notice; 2,000,00 units ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" of Nabil Bank Limited have been listed on NEPSE for regular trading. In compliance with Nepal Rastra Bank’s regulatory requirement for issuance of debenture, Nabil Bank had issued 2 million units of 7 years Nabil Debenture 2082 with an interest rate of 10% per annum. The interest on the same is payable on the half-yearly basis of each fiscal year until the maturity of the Debenture. The issue was for the size of NPR 2 Billion with 60% (NPR 1.2 Billion) to be sold through Private Placement and 40% (NPR 800 Million) was set aside for public including Mutual Fund. Amidst the difficult situation of lockdown caused by COVID - 19 pandemics, the issue which was opened on Chaitra 2, 2076 was successfully closed on Baisakh 16, 2077 with 100% subscription. The Debenture was subscribed by many insurance companies, mutual funds, retirement funds, and welfare funds. Likewise; 1,05,861.62 units Promoter Shares of Mithila Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (MLBBL) has been converted into Public Share, making the Promoter to Public Share Ratio of the Company to  60:40. "
2020-07-17,Nabil bank announces 36th Anniversary Offer for swap & new loan customers; retail customers to be benefited with loans as reasonable as 7.99% interest,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-announces-36th-anniversary-offer-for-swap-new-loan-customers-retail-customers-to-be-benefited-with-loans-as-reasonable-as-799-interest,"In the present context of the ongoing pandemic, Nabil Bank has introduced the “36th Anniversary Offer” for its customers. This offer is being introduced to address the needs of Retail and Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) customers. Under this special offer, the Bank is offering special discounts on Retail loans (i.e. Housing Loan, Mortgage Loan, and Personal Overdraft) and SME loans. Under this offer, the Bank is providing attractive interest rates i.e. This anniversary offer can be availed from all Nabil branches and is valid for a limited time period only. Nabil bank is providing its services through a wide domestic network of 118 branches, 175 ATMs, more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation, and many correspondents across the globe. The Bank believes in moving “Together Ahead” with all its stakeholders.   In the present context of the ongoing pandemic, Nabil Bank has introduced the “36th Anniversary Offer” for its customers. This offer is being introduced to address the needs of Retail and Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) customers. Under this special offer, the Bank is offering special discounts on Retail loans (i.e. Housing Loan, Mortgage Loan, and Personal Overdraft) and SME loans. Under this offer, the Bank is providing attractive interest rates i.e. This anniversary offer can be availed from all Nabil branches and is valid for a limited time period only. Nabil bank is providing its services through a wide domestic network of 118 branches, 175 ATMs, more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation, and many correspondents across the globe. The Bank believes in moving “Together Ahead” with all its stakeholders.   In the present context of the ongoing pandemic, Nabil Bank has introduced the “36th Anniversary Offer” for its customers. This offer is being introduced to address the needs of Retail and Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) customers. Under this special offer, the Bank is offering special discounts on Retail loans (i.e. Housing Loan, Mortgage Loan, and Personal Overdraft) and SME loans. Under this offer, the Bank is providing attractive interest rates i.e. This anniversary offer can be availed from all Nabil branches and is valid for a limited time period only. Nabil bank is providing its services through a wide domestic network of 118 branches, 175 ATMs, more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation, and many correspondents across the globe. The Bank believes in moving “Together Ahead” with all its stakeholders.   "
2020-07-14,NABIL Bank and Rastriya Banijaya Bank update new interest rates effective from Shrawan 1,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-rastriya-banijaya-bank-update-new-interest-rates-effective-from-shrawan-1,"NABIL Bank and Rastriya Banijaya Bank have updated their interest rates structure. This was unveiled in separate notices issued by both the banks today. Both of their changes will be effective from Shrawan 1. This is a day after the Bankers' Association, which has been agreeing on interest rates on deposits for the past two years, left the responsibility of setting interest rates to the banks. This was decided in the discussions held between the chief executive officers and representatives of all the 27 commercial banks today. According to the new notice, Rastriya Banijya Bank has decreased its base rate to 6.07%. The base rate was established at 6.25% previously. On the other hand, NABIL bank has retained its previous base rate of 7.36% without any change. Nevertheless, it has reduced the interest paid on fixed deposits of three months or longer. NABIL bank will now pay 7.25% interest p.a. for personal fixed deposits and 6.5% p.a. for institutional deposits. Interest rates for personal and institutional fixed deposits were previously maintained at 8.50% p.a. and 7% p.a. respectively. The Bankers' Association has left it to the banks to reduce interest rates without hurting the general depositors because the banks said that it was difficult to meet costs because of excess liquidity in the banking system. When asked whether this will create an unhealthy competition to slash interest rates among banks, Nabil CEO Anil Shah says, ""I like to believe banks should not engage in the dirty game of snatching customers from each other."" ""This is a temporary situation and it won't last past the first quarter in my opinion,"" Shah says. Nabil Bank Rastriya Banijaya Bank Rastriya Banijaya Bank Loan NABIL Bank and Rastriya Banijaya Bank have updated their interest rates structure. This was unveiled in separate notices issued by both the banks today. Both of their changes will be effective from Shrawan 1. This is a day after the Bankers' Association, which has been agreeing on interest rates on deposits for the past two years, left the responsibility of setting interest rates to the banks. This was decided in the discussions held between the chief executive officers and representatives of all the 27 commercial banks today. According to the new notice, Rastriya Banijya Bank has decreased its base rate to 6.07%. The base rate was established at 6.25% previously. On the other hand, NABIL bank has retained its previous base rate of 7.36% without any change. Nevertheless, it has reduced the interest paid on fixed deposits of three months or longer. NABIL bank will now pay 7.25% interest p.a. for personal fixed deposits and 6.5% p.a. for institutional deposits. Interest rates for personal and institutional fixed deposits were previously maintained at 8.50% p.a. and 7% p.a. respectively. The Bankers' Association has left it to the banks to reduce interest rates without hurting the general depositors because the banks said that it was difficult to meet costs because of excess liquidity in the banking system. When asked whether this will create an unhealthy competition to slash interest rates among banks, Nabil CEO Anil Shah says, ""I like to believe banks should not engage in the dirty game of snatching customers from each other."" ""This is a temporary situation and it won't last past the first quarter in my opinion,"" Shah says. Nabil Bank Rastriya Banijaya Bank Rastriya Banijaya Bank Loan NABIL Bank and Rastriya Banijaya Bank have updated their interest rates structure. This was unveiled in separate notices issued by both the banks today. Both of their changes will be effective from Shrawan 1. This is a day after the Bankers' Association, which has been agreeing on interest rates on deposits for the past two years, left the responsibility of setting interest rates to the banks. This was decided in the discussions held between the chief executive officers and representatives of all the 27 commercial banks today. According to the new notice, Rastriya Banijya Bank has decreased its base rate to 6.07%. The base rate was established at 6.25% previously. On the other hand, NABIL bank has retained its previous base rate of 7.36% without any change. Nevertheless, it has reduced the interest paid on fixed deposits of three months or longer. NABIL bank will now pay 7.25% interest p.a. for personal fixed deposits and 6.5% p.a. for institutional deposits. Interest rates for personal and institutional fixed deposits were previously maintained at 8.50% p.a. and 7% p.a. respectively. The Bankers' Association has left it to the banks to reduce interest rates without hurting the general depositors because the banks said that it was difficult to meet costs because of excess liquidity in the banking system. When asked whether this will create an unhealthy competition to slash interest rates among banks, Nabil CEO Anil Shah says, ""I like to believe banks should not engage in the dirty game of snatching customers from each other."" ""This is a temporary situation and it won't last past the first quarter in my opinion,"" Shah says. Nabil Bank Rastriya Banijaya Bank Rastriya Banijaya Bank Loan "
2020-07-13,Nabil Bank kickstarts Nabil DigiBank service to transform digital banking service in Nepal; customers to receive next-gen banking services with bank’s technological shift,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-kickstarts-nabil-digibank-service-to-transform-digital-banking-service-in-nepal-customers-to-receive-next-gen-banking-services-with-banks-technological-shift,   
2020-07-09,Falling Base Rate of commercial banks; What it means for investors,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/falling-base-rate-of-commercial-banks-what-it-means-for-investors,"Although banks have a wide variety of products and responsibilities, their primary function is to accept deposits and release loans. Basically, banks make money by charging a pre-specified interest rate for the money it lends. On the other hand, it gets the money to lend by encouraging savers to deposit their cash in return for a certain extra interest payment. It is a known fact that banks charge higher interest rates while we borrow money than the rate it pays us if we deposit our cash. While this is for a variety of reasons, the primary reason is that banks have to be liquid at all times. Banks cannot lend all the deposits to borrowers. If this happens, banks cannot pay back the savers on time if they demand a withdrawal. For this reason, some capital has to be kept for liquidity. To overcome the loss that this creates, banks have to charge a higher rate for the limited capital they lend. How do banks determine their interest rates? Why are the rates different for different savings and credit packages? This leads us to an interesting instrument that banks use, which is called the base rate. The base rate is the minimum rate banks have to charge to their customers to remain in profit. It is calculated on the basis of expenses incurred by the banks and financial institutions as cost of funds, cost of liquidity (CRR and SLR), cost of operation. Banks will adjust interest rates for different instruments they have by adding to the base rate. It all depends on what kind of lending they want to encourage and what kind of lending they think is risky for their capital. Banks have revised their interest rates along with the base rates in recent days. Sharesansar compared the change in their base rates. The findings are tabulated below: What impact will a decreased base rate have on the stock market? Needless to say, a smaller interest rate means better access to capital. More people will be encouraged to borrow money from banks if they have to pay lesser as interest. Investors can take loans against shares to reinvest in financial securities without much worry. More liquidity equals more opportunity in the stock market. NEPSE is very likely to witness a surge in the volume of transactions if people choose to invest their liquid capital in shares. Moreover, a reduced interest rate discourages the general public from keeping their cash idle at a deposit account. They might want to enter the stock market for better returns instead. Although banks have a wide variety of products and responsibilities, their primary function is to accept deposits and release loans. Basically, banks make money by charging a pre-specified interest rate for the money it lends. On the other hand, it gets the money to lend by encouraging savers to deposit their cash in return for a certain extra interest payment. It is a known fact that banks charge higher interest rates while we borrow money than the rate it pays us if we deposit our cash. While this is for a variety of reasons, the primary reason is that banks have to be liquid at all times. Banks cannot lend all the deposits to borrowers. If this happens, banks cannot pay back the savers on time if they demand a withdrawal. For this reason, some capital has to be kept for liquidity. To overcome the loss that this creates, banks have to charge a higher rate for the limited capital they lend. How do banks determine their interest rates? Why are the rates different for different savings and credit packages? This leads us to an interesting instrument that banks use, which is called the base rate. The base rate is the minimum rate banks have to charge to their customers to remain in profit. It is calculated on the basis of expenses incurred by the banks and financial institutions as cost of funds, cost of liquidity (CRR and SLR), cost of operation. Banks will adjust interest rates for different instruments they have by adding to the base rate. It all depends on what kind of lending they want to encourage and what kind of lending they think is risky for their capital. Banks have revised their interest rates along with the base rates in recent days. Sharesansar compared the change in their base rates. The findings are tabulated below: What impact will a decreased base rate have on the stock market? Needless to say, a smaller interest rate means better access to capital. More people will be encouraged to borrow money from banks if they have to pay lesser as interest. Investors can take loans against shares to reinvest in financial securities without much worry. More liquidity equals more opportunity in the stock market. NEPSE is very likely to witness a surge in the volume of transactions if people choose to invest their liquid capital in shares. Moreover, a reduced interest rate discourages the general public from keeping their cash idle at a deposit account. They might want to enter the stock market for better returns instead. Although banks have a wide variety of products and responsibilities, their primary function is to accept deposits and release loans. Basically, banks make money by charging a pre-specified interest rate for the money it lends. On the other hand, it gets the money to lend by encouraging savers to deposit their cash in return for a certain extra interest payment. It is a known fact that banks charge higher interest rates while we borrow money than the rate it pays us if we deposit our cash. While this is for a variety of reasons, the primary reason is that banks have to be liquid at all times. Banks cannot lend all the deposits to borrowers. If this happens, banks cannot pay back the savers on time if they demand a withdrawal. For this reason, some capital has to be kept for liquidity. To overcome the loss that this creates, banks have to charge a higher rate for the limited capital they lend. How do banks determine their interest rates? Why are the rates different for different savings and credit packages? This leads us to an interesting instrument that banks use, which is called the base rate. The base rate is the minimum rate banks have to charge to their customers to remain in profit. It is calculated on the basis of expenses incurred by the banks and financial institutions as cost of funds, cost of liquidity (CRR and SLR), cost of operation. Banks will adjust interest rates for different instruments they have by adding to the base rate. It all depends on what kind of lending they want to encourage and what kind of lending they think is risky for their capital. Banks have revised their interest rates along with the base rates in recent days. Sharesansar compared the change in their base rates. The findings are tabulated below: What impact will a decreased base rate have on the stock market? Needless to say, a smaller interest rate means better access to capital. More people will be encouraged to borrow money from banks if they have to pay lesser as interest. Investors can take loans against shares to reinvest in financial securities without much worry. More liquidity equals more opportunity in the stock market. NEPSE is very likely to witness a surge in the volume of transactions if people choose to invest their liquid capital in shares. Moreover, a reduced interest rate discourages the general public from keeping their cash idle at a deposit account. They might want to enter the stock market for better returns instead. "
2020-07-08,Nabil Bank on the road to digital transformation; Signs Strategic Cooperation MOU with Global Leader Huawei,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-on-the-road-to-digital-transformation-signs-strategic-cooperation-mou-with-global-leader-huawei,"Nabil Bank, the leading Commercial bank in Nepal, signed a strategic cooperation Memorandum of Understanding with Huawei, in Huawei Technologies Nepal`s office located in Lalitpur on July 8th, 2020. Mr. Anil Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank and Mr. Deng Shuigen, CEO of Huawei Technologies Nepal signed the MOU. Mr. XXX, Senior executive from Huawei Headquarters (TBD) and other representatives participated in the event as witnesses by using Huawei online video conference system.  Mr. Anil K. Shah, CEO of the Bank, expressed his excitement about the strategic partnership with Huawei, a globally leading ICT solution provider, as the partnership is strategically significant to unlock a wide range of collaborative opportunities to adding value to the Bank and its customers. He stated that the extensive experience of Huawei in digital transformation of various industries around the world would enable the bank to become a truly digital bank. As Nabil Bank has embarked on the digital transformation process with a mission to becoming the leading digital bank creating tremendous value to Nepalese citizens and setting unprecedented benchmarks focused on superior customer experiences, he firmly believed that the strategic partnership would be an opportunity to learn and leverage on the most advanced digital technologies to deliver unparalleled customer service and experiences. Representative from Huawei stated that, Huawei`s cloud & AI technology, cloud based Video Conferencing system, Wifi-6 and other advanced ICT solutions would help Nabil Bank accelerate its digital transformation, by improving efficiency of Nabil Bank`s internal work flow, and modernize its innovative financial digital service to its customer for better customer experience. Underlining the fruitful cooperation and mutual trust shared by the two companies, Huawei is committed to provide Nabil bank with cutting-edge know-how to enable it offer customers smart, easy, reliable and secure digital banking services. With dedication of both Huawei Finance sector team, Huawei Cloud service team and Huawei Nepal local support team, the digital transformation of Nabil Bank will be accelerated and the company would be more competitive in Nepalese banking and financial service market. Currently, 228 out of Global 500 companies, and 58 of 100 world’s top enterprises have selected Huawei as their trusted partner for digital transformation. Huawei helps financial institutions achieve digital transformation in inclusive finance, data-driven service innovation, and open banking, implementing full connectivity and service agility with its global partners. Currently, Huawei has served more than 1600 financial customers worldwide, including 45 of the world's top 100 banks. Some Introduction about Nabil Bank & Nabil Bank`s plan on digitalization. Nabil Bank is the first Joint Venture Bank in Nepal committed to providing complete set of modern financial services. It’s been serving the Nepalese customers setting milestones along, that reflect on its commitment to provide modern financial services - Online Banking, 24x7 customer support service, Plastic cards, ATMs, electronic payments, and electronic remittance services to name a few. As the Bank completes its thirty-six (36) years of operation on 12 of July 2020, it vows to re-define and elevate the standards of customer centric banking to an entirely new level leveraging on top notch state-of-art digital technologies. Based on insights drawn from a year long in-depth analyses of its business strategies and operating models, it has embarked on a journey of digital transformation.   Nabil Bank, the leading Commercial bank in Nepal, signed a strategic cooperation Memorandum of Understanding with Huawei, in Huawei Technologies Nepal`s office located in Lalitpur on July 8th, 2020. Mr. Anil Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank and Mr. Deng Shuigen, CEO of Huawei Technologies Nepal signed the MOU. Mr. XXX, Senior executive from Huawei Headquarters (TBD) and other representatives participated in the event as witnesses by using Huawei online video conference system.  Mr. Anil K. Shah, CEO of the Bank, expressed his excitement about the strategic partnership with Huawei, a globally leading ICT solution provider, as the partnership is strategically significant to unlock a wide range of collaborative opportunities to adding value to the Bank and its customers. He stated that the extensive experience of Huawei in digital transformation of various industries around the world would enable the bank to become a truly digital bank. As Nabil Bank has embarked on the digital transformation process with a mission to becoming the leading digital bank creating tremendous value to Nepalese citizens and setting unprecedented benchmarks focused on superior customer experiences, he firmly believed that the strategic partnership would be an opportunity to learn and leverage on the most advanced digital technologies to deliver unparalleled customer service and experiences. Representative from Huawei stated that, Huawei`s cloud & AI technology, cloud based Video Conferencing system, Wifi-6 and other advanced ICT solutions would help Nabil Bank accelerate its digital transformation, by improving efficiency of Nabil Bank`s internal work flow, and modernize its innovative financial digital service to its customer for better customer experience. Underlining the fruitful cooperation and mutual trust shared by the two companies, Huawei is committed to provide Nabil bank with cutting-edge know-how to enable it offer customers smart, easy, reliable and secure digital banking services. With dedication of both Huawei Finance sector team, Huawei Cloud service team and Huawei Nepal local support team, the digital transformation of Nabil Bank will be accelerated and the company would be more competitive in Nepalese banking and financial service market. Currently, 228 out of Global 500 companies, and 58 of 100 world’s top enterprises have selected Huawei as their trusted partner for digital transformation. Huawei helps financial institutions achieve digital transformation in inclusive finance, data-driven service innovation, and open banking, implementing full connectivity and service agility with its global partners. Currently, Huawei has served more than 1600 financial customers worldwide, including 45 of the world's top 100 banks. Some Introduction about Nabil Bank & Nabil Bank`s plan on digitalization. Nabil Bank is the first Joint Venture Bank in Nepal committed to providing complete set of modern financial services. It’s been serving the Nepalese customers setting milestones along, that reflect on its commitment to provide modern financial services - Online Banking, 24x7 customer support service, Plastic cards, ATMs, electronic payments, and electronic remittance services to name a few. As the Bank completes its thirty-six (36) years of operation on 12 of July 2020, it vows to re-define and elevate the standards of customer centric banking to an entirely new level leveraging on top notch state-of-art digital technologies. Based on insights drawn from a year long in-depth analyses of its business strategies and operating models, it has embarked on a journey of digital transformation.   Nabil Bank, the leading Commercial bank in Nepal, signed a strategic cooperation Memorandum of Understanding with Huawei, in Huawei Technologies Nepal`s office located in Lalitpur on July 8th, 2020. Mr. Anil Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank and Mr. Deng Shuigen, CEO of Huawei Technologies Nepal signed the MOU. Mr. XXX, Senior executive from Huawei Headquarters (TBD) and other representatives participated in the event as witnesses by using Huawei online video conference system.  Mr. Anil K. Shah, CEO of the Bank, expressed his excitement about the strategic partnership with Huawei, a globally leading ICT solution provider, as the partnership is strategically significant to unlock a wide range of collaborative opportunities to adding value to the Bank and its customers. He stated that the extensive experience of Huawei in digital transformation of various industries around the world would enable the bank to become a truly digital bank. As Nabil Bank has embarked on the digital transformation process with a mission to becoming the leading digital bank creating tremendous value to Nepalese citizens and setting unprecedented benchmarks focused on superior customer experiences, he firmly believed that the strategic partnership would be an opportunity to learn and leverage on the most advanced digital technologies to deliver unparalleled customer service and experiences. Representative from Huawei stated that, Huawei`s cloud & AI technology, cloud based Video Conferencing system, Wifi-6 and other advanced ICT solutions would help Nabil Bank accelerate its digital transformation, by improving efficiency of Nabil Bank`s internal work flow, and modernize its innovative financial digital service to its customer for better customer experience. Underlining the fruitful cooperation and mutual trust shared by the two companies, Huawei is committed to provide Nabil bank with cutting-edge know-how to enable it offer customers smart, easy, reliable and secure digital banking services. With dedication of both Huawei Finance sector team, Huawei Cloud service team and Huawei Nepal local support team, the digital transformation of Nabil Bank will be accelerated and the company would be more competitive in Nepalese banking and financial service market. Currently, 228 out of Global 500 companies, and 58 of 100 world’s top enterprises have selected Huawei as their trusted partner for digital transformation. Huawei helps financial institutions achieve digital transformation in inclusive finance, data-driven service innovation, and open banking, implementing full connectivity and service agility with its global partners. Currently, Huawei has served more than 1600 financial customers worldwide, including 45 of the world's top 100 banks. Some Introduction about Nabil Bank & Nabil Bank`s plan on digitalization. Nabil Bank is the first Joint Venture Bank in Nepal committed to providing complete set of modern financial services. It’s been serving the Nepalese customers setting milestones along, that reflect on its commitment to provide modern financial services - Online Banking, 24x7 customer support service, Plastic cards, ATMs, electronic payments, and electronic remittance services to name a few. As the Bank completes its thirty-six (36) years of operation on 12 of July 2020, it vows to re-define and elevate the standards of customer centric banking to an entirely new level leveraging on top notch state-of-art digital technologies. Based on insights drawn from a year long in-depth analyses of its business strategies and operating models, it has embarked on a journey of digital transformation.   "
2020-06-09,Nabil Bank provides additional support to fight COVID-19; staff members and board members provide over 26 lakh financial support,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-provides-additional-support-to-fight-covid-19-staff-members-and-board-members-provide-over-26-lakh-financial-support,"In addition to the continued contributions made by the Bank through its institutional CSR efforts for fighting against COVID-19, Nabil Bank Staff and Board Members has contributed Rs. 26,28,867.15 to the Nepal Government’s ""Corona Virus Control and Treatment Relief Fund”.   Chief Executive Officer of the Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah handed over the cheque to the Honorable Minister of Health and Population, Mr. Bhanu Bhata Dhakal in a program organized in the Health and Population Ministry today. Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal, Chairman of the Board, Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Board of Director, and Mr. Roshan Koirala, Head Human Resources were also present in the program. The Chairman of the Bank expressed Nabil Bank’s commitment to continuously support in health sector to fight against any pandemics. Thanking members of the Board and employees of the Bank for the support, he opined that the fund donated will be utilized properly to fight against COVID-19. While the CEO stated that this donation was a reflection of the Nabil Team’s feeling that not only our Bank but each of us individually should also do what we can to help our nation effectively combat the Coronavirus pandemic. The Bank will continue to assist the Government at the Federal and Provincial levels through its CSR efforts to fight the pandemic at the local and national level. In addition to the continued contributions made by the Bank through its institutional CSR efforts for fighting against COVID-19, Nabil Bank Staff and Board Members has contributed Rs. 26,28,867.15 to the Nepal Government’s ""Corona Virus Control and Treatment Relief Fund”.   Chief Executive Officer of the Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah handed over the cheque to the Honorable Minister of Health and Population, Mr. Bhanu Bhata Dhakal in a program organized in the Health and Population Ministry today. Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal, Chairman of the Board, Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Board of Director, and Mr. Roshan Koirala, Head Human Resources were also present in the program. The Chairman of the Bank expressed Nabil Bank’s commitment to continuously support in health sector to fight against any pandemics. Thanking members of the Board and employees of the Bank for the support, he opined that the fund donated will be utilized properly to fight against COVID-19. While the CEO stated that this donation was a reflection of the Nabil Team’s feeling that not only our Bank but each of us individually should also do what we can to help our nation effectively combat the Coronavirus pandemic. The Bank will continue to assist the Government at the Federal and Provincial levels through its CSR efforts to fight the pandemic at the local and national level. In addition to the continued contributions made by the Bank through its institutional CSR efforts for fighting against COVID-19, Nabil Bank Staff and Board Members has contributed Rs. 26,28,867.15 to the Nepal Government’s ""Corona Virus Control and Treatment Relief Fund”.   Chief Executive Officer of the Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah handed over the cheque to the Honorable Minister of Health and Population, Mr. Bhanu Bhata Dhakal in a program organized in the Health and Population Ministry today. Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal, Chairman of the Board, Mr. Upendra Prasad Poudyal, Board of Director, and Mr. Roshan Koirala, Head Human Resources were also present in the program. The Chairman of the Bank expressed Nabil Bank’s commitment to continuously support in health sector to fight against any pandemics. Thanking members of the Board and employees of the Bank for the support, he opined that the fund donated will be utilized properly to fight against COVID-19. While the CEO stated that this donation was a reflection of the Nabil Team’s feeling that not only our Bank but each of us individually should also do what we can to help our nation effectively combat the Coronavirus pandemic. The Bank will continue to assist the Government at the Federal and Provincial levels through its CSR efforts to fight the pandemic at the local and national level. "
2020-05-27,Nabil Bank provides financial assistance to Karnali Province Government for its Surkhet Hospital; to purchase PCR machine for effective covid-19 testing,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-provides-financial-assistance-to-karnali-province-government-for-its-surkhet-hospital-to-purchase-pcr-machine-for-effective-covid-19-testing,"As a contribution towards fighting the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Nabil Bank, under its CSR activities, extended a financial assistance of NPR 2,825,000 (NPR Two Million Eight Hundred Twenty-Five Thousand only) to Karnali Province Government to arrange a PCR machine for its province hospital located at Birendranagar, Surkhet.  With such modern and high capacity machine, the Hospital will be equipped and empowered to conduct tests of Covid-19 samples much faster and in large batches. This will make it easier to identify positive cases and provide prompt treatment to contain further spread of the virus.   As a contribution towards fighting the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Nabil Bank, under its CSR activities, extended a financial assistance of NPR 2,825,000 (NPR Two Million Eight Hundred Twenty-Five Thousand only) to Karnali Province Government to arrange a PCR machine for its province hospital located at Birendranagar, Surkhet.  With such modern and high capacity machine, the Hospital will be equipped and empowered to conduct tests of Covid-19 samples much faster and in large batches. This will make it easier to identify positive cases and provide prompt treatment to contain further spread of the virus.   As a contribution towards fighting the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Nabil Bank, under its CSR activities, extended a financial assistance of NPR 2,825,000 (NPR Two Million Eight Hundred Twenty-Five Thousand only) to Karnali Province Government to arrange a PCR machine for its province hospital located at Birendranagar, Surkhet.  With such modern and high capacity machine, the Hospital will be equipped and empowered to conduct tests of Covid-19 samples much faster and in large batches. This will make it easier to identify positive cases and provide prompt treatment to contain further spread of the virus.   "
2020-05-14,Coronavirus pandemic impacts the profit of commercial banks: Industry net profit of commercial banks increases by only Rs 4 arba compared to last year! Loan payment rescheduling impacts the distributable profit of commercial banks!,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/coronavirus-pandemic-impacts-the-profit-of-commercial-banks-industry-net-profit-of-commercial-banks-increases-by-only-rs-4-arba-compared-to-last-year-loan-payment-rescheduling-impacts-the-distributable-profit-of-commercial-banks,"The coronavirus pandemic around has impacted normal life throughout the globe. Since 2005, remittance became a significant factor to contribute in Nepal’s GDP. The global pandemic is likely to impact developing countries like ours the most. Moreover, our major source of foreign currency i.e. remittance will see a declining trend in the upcoming months. Private and government banks have a great role to play in this pandemic. The pandemic has exposed the inefficiency in health along with education sector throughout the country. Banks and financial institutes will have to think beyond profit seeking ideology and concentrate on saving the problematic borrowers amidst the pandemic.    As per the net profit of third quarter of FY 2076/77, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)   is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 3.16 arba. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the second highest net profit of Rs 3.15 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the net profit of Rs 3.04 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 36 crore. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.69 arba. In the upcoming quarter, the profit and loss statement of banks can be expected to be unconvincing to investors. Nepal Rastra Bank has urged banks to be considerate towards borrowers for loan payment amidst the coronavirus pandemic. Moreover, a number of income sources of banks such as several fees, foreign currency transfer commission, ATM fees, etc will be impacted by the pandemic. Hence, investors can expect decrease in net profit of banks in the upcoming quarter However; it completely depends on banks’ efficiency to mobilize their resources to prevent themselves from going into a net loss.  The total net profit for the year is 45.70 arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was 41.15 arba. The overall industry net profit has increased by only 11% i.e. 4.55 arba. Distributable profit: As per the distributable profit of third quarter of 2076/77, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)   is in the lead with a profit of Rs 2.09 arba. Similarly, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the second highest net profit of Rs 1.31 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the net profit of Rs 1.25 arba. Six banks have shown negative distributable profit. Similarly, 26 out of 27 commercial banks’ distributable profit has decreased. The major reason behind the unfavorable profit figure is the postponement of loan payment that was due in Chaitra, 2076 by the commercial banks. Nepal Rastra Bank has asked commercial banks to consider the rescheduling of loan payment for borrowers.     Paid up capital: Paid up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with highest paid up capital are Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 18.98 arba capital and Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 14.25 arba paid up capital. Note: ADBL’s paid-up capital stands at Rs 14.44 arba which includes Rs 9.55 arba from ordinary shares and Rs 5.43 arba from irredeemable preference share.   With an industry average of Rs 5.92 arba, ten banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 5.92 arba in their reserve fund. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 14.18 arba. . Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained second position with Rs 13.24 arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 12.77 arba.   In an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.13 kharba as deposit. Only 13 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the third quarter of FY 2076/77, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.01 kharba (Growth in deposits is mainly due to merger with Janata Bank Limited). Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 2 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.86 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 49.85 arba only. Post the lockdown, banks are expected to decrease their interest rates on deposit. Coronavirus pandemic has hit a lot of businesses that have taken loan from several banks. Commercial banks need to decrease the interest rates on loans to lessen the impact of the pandemic on several businesses and corporate houses so, depositors will have to compromise with a lower interest rate on their deposits in the upcoming quarter.  In today’s context, the concern of investor simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of loan portfolio equally matters. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) (Growth in loans and advances is mainly due to merger with Janata Bank Limited) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.95 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.61 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.49 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 51.01 arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.01 kharba. 11 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 1.01 kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by a second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans in order to support government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting application for loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies and public transportations by rescheduling their loan payment.  Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with highest net interest income is Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) with income of Rs 6.97 arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with income of Rs 6 arba and NICA Bank Limited (NICA)  with income of Rs 5.52 arba. The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 3.63 arba. 11 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has also highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.75 arba.  Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has the second highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.22 arba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the third highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.15 arba.   Major indicators: Rastra Banijaya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 44.96 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest EPS of Rs 41.71 per share. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 36.86 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 6.01 per share.   The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 22.36. 10 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 296.63 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB)  is in the second position with Rs 263.51. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q3 of FY 2076/77 i.e. Rs 255.72. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the least net worth of Rs 124.64 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 170.17 per share. 8 companies have net worth more than the industry average.   Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the least PE ratio of 9.25 times. It is followed by Citizens Bank Limited (CZBIL) with PE ratio of 10.67 times. 14 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 14.01 times. The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter end.   Nepalese banks have both opportunity and threat in this pandemic. A bigger question is how will banks sustain with the same number of employees and same salary level while a key factor remittance related fees will be absent in the upcoming quarter. Similarly, Nepalese banks have an opportunity to promote online transactions, create web based secured software for internal bank related works and help the country by investing in highly productive sectors. Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the third quarter of FY 2076/77:    The coronavirus pandemic around has impacted normal life throughout the globe. Since 2005, remittance became a significant factor to contribute in Nepal’s GDP. The global pandemic is likely to impact developing countries like ours the most. Moreover, our major source of foreign currency i.e. remittance will see a declining trend in the upcoming months. Private and government banks have a great role to play in this pandemic. The pandemic has exposed the inefficiency in health along with education sector throughout the country. Banks and financial institutes will have to think beyond profit seeking ideology and concentrate on saving the problematic borrowers amidst the pandemic.    As per the net profit of third quarter of FY 2076/77, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)   is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 3.16 arba. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the second highest net profit of Rs 3.15 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the net profit of Rs 3.04 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 36 crore. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.69 arba. In the upcoming quarter, the profit and loss statement of banks can be expected to be unconvincing to investors. Nepal Rastra Bank has urged banks to be considerate towards borrowers for loan payment amidst the coronavirus pandemic. Moreover, a number of income sources of banks such as several fees, foreign currency transfer commission, ATM fees, etc will be impacted by the pandemic. Hence, investors can expect decrease in net profit of banks in the upcoming quarter However; it completely depends on banks’ efficiency to mobilize their resources to prevent themselves from going into a net loss.  The total net profit for the year is 45.70 arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was 41.15 arba. The overall industry net profit has increased by only 11% i.e. 4.55 arba. Distributable profit: As per the distributable profit of third quarter of 2076/77, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)   is in the lead with a profit of Rs 2.09 arba. Similarly, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the second highest net profit of Rs 1.31 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the net profit of Rs 1.25 arba. Six banks have shown negative distributable profit. Similarly, 26 out of 27 commercial banks’ distributable profit has decreased. The major reason behind the unfavorable profit figure is the postponement of loan payment that was due in Chaitra, 2076 by the commercial banks. Nepal Rastra Bank has asked commercial banks to consider the rescheduling of loan payment for borrowers.     Paid up capital: Paid up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with highest paid up capital are Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 18.98 arba capital and Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 14.25 arba paid up capital. Note: ADBL’s paid-up capital stands at Rs 14.44 arba which includes Rs 9.55 arba from ordinary shares and Rs 5.43 arba from irredeemable preference share.   With an industry average of Rs 5.92 arba, ten banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 5.92 arba in their reserve fund. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 14.18 arba. . Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained second position with Rs 13.24 arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 12.77 arba.   In an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.13 kharba as deposit. Only 13 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the third quarter of FY 2076/77, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.01 kharba (Growth in deposits is mainly due to merger with Janata Bank Limited). Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 2 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.86 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 49.85 arba only. Post the lockdown, banks are expected to decrease their interest rates on deposit. Coronavirus pandemic has hit a lot of businesses that have taken loan from several banks. Commercial banks need to decrease the interest rates on loans to lessen the impact of the pandemic on several businesses and corporate houses so, depositors will have to compromise with a lower interest rate on their deposits in the upcoming quarter.  In today’s context, the concern of investor simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of loan portfolio equally matters. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) (Growth in loans and advances is mainly due to merger with Janata Bank Limited) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.95 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.61 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.49 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 51.01 arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.01 kharba. 11 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 1.01 kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by a second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans in order to support government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting application for loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies and public transportations by rescheduling their loan payment.  Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with highest net interest income is Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) with income of Rs 6.97 arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with income of Rs 6 arba and NICA Bank Limited (NICA)  with income of Rs 5.52 arba. The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 3.63 arba. 11 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has also highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.75 arba.  Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has the second highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.22 arba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the third highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.15 arba.   Major indicators: Rastra Banijaya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 44.96 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest EPS of Rs 41.71 per share. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 36.86 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 6.01 per share.   The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 22.36. 10 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 296.63 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB)  is in the second position with Rs 263.51. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q3 of FY 2076/77 i.e. Rs 255.72. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the least net worth of Rs 124.64 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 170.17 per share. 8 companies have net worth more than the industry average.   Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the least PE ratio of 9.25 times. It is followed by Citizens Bank Limited (CZBIL) with PE ratio of 10.67 times. 14 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 14.01 times. The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter end.   Nepalese banks have both opportunity and threat in this pandemic. A bigger question is how will banks sustain with the same number of employees and same salary level while a key factor remittance related fees will be absent in the upcoming quarter. Similarly, Nepalese banks have an opportunity to promote online transactions, create web based secured software for internal bank related works and help the country by investing in highly productive sectors. Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the third quarter of FY 2076/77:    The coronavirus pandemic around has impacted normal life throughout the globe. Since 2005, remittance became a significant factor to contribute in Nepal’s GDP. The global pandemic is likely to impact developing countries like ours the most. Moreover, our major source of foreign currency i.e. remittance will see a declining trend in the upcoming months. Private and government banks have a great role to play in this pandemic. The pandemic has exposed the inefficiency in health along with education sector throughout the country. Banks and financial institutes will have to think beyond profit seeking ideology and concentrate on saving the problematic borrowers amidst the pandemic.    As per the net profit of third quarter of FY 2076/77, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)   is in the lead with a net profit of Rs 3.16 arba. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the second highest net profit of Rs 3.15 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the net profit of Rs 3.04 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 36 crore. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.69 arba. In the upcoming quarter, the profit and loss statement of banks can be expected to be unconvincing to investors. Nepal Rastra Bank has urged banks to be considerate towards borrowers for loan payment amidst the coronavirus pandemic. Moreover, a number of income sources of banks such as several fees, foreign currency transfer commission, ATM fees, etc will be impacted by the pandemic. Hence, investors can expect decrease in net profit of banks in the upcoming quarter However; it completely depends on banks’ efficiency to mobilize their resources to prevent themselves from going into a net loss.  The total net profit for the year is 45.70 arba whereas that for the last year of the same quarter was 41.15 arba. The overall industry net profit has increased by only 11% i.e. 4.55 arba. Distributable profit: As per the distributable profit of third quarter of 2076/77, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)   is in the lead with a profit of Rs 2.09 arba. Similarly, Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited (SCB) has the second highest net profit of Rs 1.31 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the net profit of Rs 1.25 arba. Six banks have shown negative distributable profit. Similarly, 26 out of 27 commercial banks’ distributable profit has decreased. The major reason behind the unfavorable profit figure is the postponement of loan payment that was due in Chaitra, 2076 by the commercial banks. Nepal Rastra Bank has asked commercial banks to consider the rescheduling of loan payment for borrowers.     Paid up capital: Paid up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with highest paid up capital are Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 18.98 arba capital and Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 14.25 arba paid up capital. Note: ADBL’s paid-up capital stands at Rs 14.44 arba which includes Rs 9.55 arba from ordinary shares and Rs 5.43 arba from irredeemable preference share.   With an industry average of Rs 5.92 arba, ten banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 5.92 arba in their reserve fund. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 14.18 arba. . Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained second position with Rs 13.24 arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 12.77 arba.   In an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.13 kharba as deposit. Only 13 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the third quarter of FY 2076/77, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 2.01 kharba (Growth in deposits is mainly due to merger with Janata Bank Limited). Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 2 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.86 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 49.85 arba only. Post the lockdown, banks are expected to decrease their interest rates on deposit. Coronavirus pandemic has hit a lot of businesses that have taken loan from several banks. Commercial banks need to decrease the interest rates on loans to lessen the impact of the pandemic on several businesses and corporate houses so, depositors will have to compromise with a lower interest rate on their deposits in the upcoming quarter.  In today’s context, the concern of investor simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of loan portfolio equally matters. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) (Growth in loans and advances is mainly due to merger with Janata Bank Limited) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.95 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.61 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.49 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 51.01 arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 1.01 kharba. 11 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 1.01 kharba. The loan disbursement among banks will probably see a new modality in the upcoming quarter. For instance, new loans for sectors that might be affected by a second wave of coronavirus pandemic might not be entertained by the banks. Moreover, banks will have to focus on agricultural loans in order to support government’s initiative to commercialize agriculture sectors. New startups will have to rethink their business model before presenting application for loan in banks. Banks might support a lot of hotels, restaurants, consultancies and public transportations by rescheduling their loan payment.  Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with highest net interest income is Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) with income of Rs 6.97 arba followed by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with income of Rs 6 arba and NICA Bank Limited (NICA)  with income of Rs 5.52 arba. The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 3.63 arba. 11 out of 27 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has also highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.75 arba.  Rastriya Banijaya Bank (RBB) has the second highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.22 arba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the third highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.15 arba.   Major indicators: Rastra Banijaya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 44.96 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest EPS of Rs 41.71 per share. Everest Bank Limited (EBL) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 36.86 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 6.01 per share.   The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 22.36. 10 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 296.63 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB)  is in the second position with Rs 263.51. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q3 of FY 2076/77 i.e. Rs 255.72. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the least net worth of Rs 124.64 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 170.17 per share. 8 companies have net worth more than the industry average.   Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the least PE ratio of 9.25 times. It is followed by Citizens Bank Limited (CZBIL) with PE ratio of 10.67 times. 14 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 14.01 times. The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter end.   Nepalese banks have both opportunity and threat in this pandemic. A bigger question is how will banks sustain with the same number of employees and same salary level while a key factor remittance related fees will be absent in the upcoming quarter. Similarly, Nepalese banks have an opportunity to promote online transactions, create web based secured software for internal bank related works and help the country by investing in highly productive sectors. Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the third quarter of FY 2076/77:    "
2020-05-12,Nepal Banking giant Nabil Bank's distributable profit not much affected by current crisis; earns Rs 3.15 arba in Q3,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nepal-banking-giant-nabil-banks-distributable-profit-not-much-affected-by-current-crisis-earns-rs-315-arba-in-q3,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its third quarter report for the FY 2076/77 today with a meager 1.01% fall in net profit. The bank’s profit has decreased from Rs 3.19 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2075/76 to Rs 3.15 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2076/77. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 2.09 arba as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments whereas same figure stood at Rs 2.32 arba during last year same period. Nabil Bank’s Q3 distributable profit is not much affected by current crisis prevailing in banking sector due to COVID-19 outbreak and its impact in the overall economy. The bank’s deposit from customers has increased by meager 4.95% (compared to immediate previous year ending) to Rs 1.71 kharba and loans and advances to customers increased by 17.17% (compared to immediate previous year ending) to Rs 1.49 kharba till the third quarter. The net interest income (core business income) of the bank has decreased slightly by 0.73% to Rs 5.37 arba from Rs 5.41 arba of the corresponding quarter. The bank’s paid up capital stands at Rs 10.09 arba with Rs 14.86 arba as its reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan stands at 0.63%. In the third quarter, the annualized EPS of the bank stands at Rs 41.71. The net worth per share stands at Rs 247.71 and qtr end PE ratio stands at 16.81 times. Click here for Q3 report: Major Highlights:  * Figure are of Immediate Previous Year Ending (Audited)  * Published EPS, Networth and PE may differ. As per NFRS standard, Weighted average number of shares is taken while calculating EPS, Networth and PE but we have taken number of shares as per Q3 end paid up capital.   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its third quarter report for the FY 2076/77 today with a meager 1.01% fall in net profit. The bank’s profit has decreased from Rs 3.19 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2075/76 to Rs 3.15 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2076/77. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 2.09 arba as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments whereas same figure stood at Rs 2.32 arba during last year same period. Nabil Bank’s Q3 distributable profit is not much affected by current crisis prevailing in banking sector due to COVID-19 outbreak and its impact in the overall economy. The bank’s deposit from customers has increased by meager 4.95% (compared to immediate previous year ending) to Rs 1.71 kharba and loans and advances to customers increased by 17.17% (compared to immediate previous year ending) to Rs 1.49 kharba till the third quarter. The net interest income (core business income) of the bank has decreased slightly by 0.73% to Rs 5.37 arba from Rs 5.41 arba of the corresponding quarter. The bank’s paid up capital stands at Rs 10.09 arba with Rs 14.86 arba as its reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan stands at 0.63%. In the third quarter, the annualized EPS of the bank stands at Rs 41.71. The net worth per share stands at Rs 247.71 and qtr end PE ratio stands at 16.81 times. Click here for Q3 report: Major Highlights:  * Figure are of Immediate Previous Year Ending (Audited)  * Published EPS, Networth and PE may differ. As per NFRS standard, Weighted average number of shares is taken while calculating EPS, Networth and PE but we have taken number of shares as per Q3 end paid up capital.   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its third quarter report for the FY 2076/77 today with a meager 1.01% fall in net profit. The bank’s profit has decreased from Rs 3.19 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2075/76 to Rs 3.15 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2076/77. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 2.09 arba as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments whereas same figure stood at Rs 2.32 arba during last year same period. Nabil Bank’s Q3 distributable profit is not much affected by current crisis prevailing in banking sector due to COVID-19 outbreak and its impact in the overall economy. The bank’s deposit from customers has increased by meager 4.95% (compared to immediate previous year ending) to Rs 1.71 kharba and loans and advances to customers increased by 17.17% (compared to immediate previous year ending) to Rs 1.49 kharba till the third quarter. The net interest income (core business income) of the bank has decreased slightly by 0.73% to Rs 5.37 arba from Rs 5.41 arba of the corresponding quarter. The bank’s paid up capital stands at Rs 10.09 arba with Rs 14.86 arba as its reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan stands at 0.63%. In the third quarter, the annualized EPS of the bank stands at Rs 41.71. The net worth per share stands at Rs 247.71 and qtr end PE ratio stands at 16.81 times. Click here for Q3 report: Major Highlights:  * Figure are of Immediate Previous Year Ending (Audited)  * Published EPS, Networth and PE may differ. As per NFRS standard, Weighted average number of shares is taken while calculating EPS, Networth and PE but we have taken number of shares as per Q3 end paid up capital.   "
2020-05-04,Nabil Bank to facilitate to open online accounts; aims to reduce risk of exposure to Covid-19 infection for its customers,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-facilitate-to-open-online-accounts-aims-to-reduce-risk-of-exposure-to-covid-19-infection-for-its-customers,"Nabil Bank has launched a new scheme under which customers will be able to open their accounts with the bank via its online channel without visiting the branches. Customers can also subscribe to internet and mobile banking services with this scheme following which they can remotely perform range of their banking transactions from their homes thereby protecting themselves from exposing to ongoing threat of Covid-19, as per the media statement.  The bank has 118 branches and 177 ATM booths under its network. Nabil Bank has launched a new scheme under which customers will be able to open their accounts with the bank via its online channel without visiting the branches. Customers can also subscribe to internet and mobile banking services with this scheme following which they can remotely perform range of their banking transactions from their homes thereby protecting themselves from exposing to ongoing threat of Covid-19, as per the media statement.  The bank has 118 branches and 177 ATM booths under its network. Nabil Bank has launched a new scheme under which customers will be able to open their accounts with the bank via its online channel without visiting the branches. Customers can also subscribe to internet and mobile banking services with this scheme following which they can remotely perform range of their banking transactions from their homes thereby protecting themselves from exposing to ongoing threat of Covid-19, as per the media statement.  The bank has 118 branches and 177 ATM booths under its network. "
2020-04-28,Nabil Bank launches e@Nabil- a corporate internet banking solution; aims to facilitate intra and interbanking transfers  ,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-e-at-nabil-a-corporate-internet-banking-solution-aims-to-facilitate-intra-and-interbanking-transfers,"Nabil Bank has Launch “e@Nabil”, a corporate internet banking solution targeted to SME, Mid-corporate, and Large corporate customers. e@Nabil is an internet based product that allows corporate customers to access their operating accounts and to carry out transaction online. With this solution client can perform both intra-bank and interbank fund transfers without visiting Bank branches. During ongoing COVID 19 lockdown, e@Nabil has been launched considering the health and safety of customers. Corporate customers can transact without visiting the Bank branches for intra bank and inter-bank transactions. e@Nabil also facilitates bulk transaction processing for businesses. The corporate clients can use this product to route salary of the employees directly to their accounts using e@Nabil. “This product aims to provide value for money to corporate customers by providing them self-service delivery channel, reducing their frequency of branch visits, improving service turnaround time, and allowing customers to conduct seamless payment and financial transaction” says Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank. At this juncture with e@Nabil, as businesses can make payments to their vendors, their need to visit Bank branches will reduce significantly during the lock down. This will ensure their safety from COVID 19 infection. Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has 118 branches and 175 ATM network all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been in the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With e@Nabil, Nabil Bank aims to provide seamless, convenient and faster transaction capability to corporate customers, who need to deal with route bulk payments frequently.   Nabil Bank has Launch “e@Nabil”, a corporate internet banking solution targeted to SME, Mid-corporate, and Large corporate customers. e@Nabil is an internet based product that allows corporate customers to access their operating accounts and to carry out transaction online. With this solution client can perform both intra-bank and interbank fund transfers without visiting Bank branches. During ongoing COVID 19 lockdown, e@Nabil has been launched considering the health and safety of customers. Corporate customers can transact without visiting the Bank branches for intra bank and inter-bank transactions. e@Nabil also facilitates bulk transaction processing for businesses. The corporate clients can use this product to route salary of the employees directly to their accounts using e@Nabil. “This product aims to provide value for money to corporate customers by providing them self-service delivery channel, reducing their frequency of branch visits, improving service turnaround time, and allowing customers to conduct seamless payment and financial transaction” says Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank. At this juncture with e@Nabil, as businesses can make payments to their vendors, their need to visit Bank branches will reduce significantly during the lock down. This will ensure their safety from COVID 19 infection. Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has 118 branches and 175 ATM network all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been in the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With e@Nabil, Nabil Bank aims to provide seamless, convenient and faster transaction capability to corporate customers, who need to deal with route bulk payments frequently.   Nabil Bank has Launch “e@Nabil”, a corporate internet banking solution targeted to SME, Mid-corporate, and Large corporate customers. e@Nabil is an internet based product that allows corporate customers to access their operating accounts and to carry out transaction online. With this solution client can perform both intra-bank and interbank fund transfers without visiting Bank branches. During ongoing COVID 19 lockdown, e@Nabil has been launched considering the health and safety of customers. Corporate customers can transact without visiting the Bank branches for intra bank and inter-bank transactions. e@Nabil also facilitates bulk transaction processing for businesses. The corporate clients can use this product to route salary of the employees directly to their accounts using e@Nabil. “This product aims to provide value for money to corporate customers by providing them self-service delivery channel, reducing their frequency of branch visits, improving service turnaround time, and allowing customers to conduct seamless payment and financial transaction” says Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank. At this juncture with e@Nabil, as businesses can make payments to their vendors, their need to visit Bank branches will reduce significantly during the lock down. This will ensure their safety from COVID 19 infection. Nabil Bank is the pioneer private sector bank of Nepal. It has 118 branches and 175 ATM network all over the country. Nabil Bank has always been in the forefront in adopting new technology and introducing innovative products and services.  With e@Nabil, Nabil Bank aims to provide seamless, convenient and faster transaction capability to corporate customers, who need to deal with route bulk payments frequently.   "
2020-03-16,10% Nabil Debenture 2082 open for application; Find out necessary information before investing,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/10-nabil-debenture-2082-open-for-application-find-out-necessary-information-before-investing,"Company profile Nabil Bank Limited, the first private-sector class A commercial bank in Nepal, started commercial operations in July 1984 as Nepal Arab Bank Limited. Nabil started off as a joint venture with Emirates Bank International. The latter divested its stake in Nabil which was ultimately taken over by NB International, an Ireland based special purpose vehicle associated with CG Group. The name was changed to Nabil Bank, following the withdrawal of its joint venture partner -Emirates Bank International, in 1997. Headquartered in Kathmandu, Nabil is the second-largest private sector commercial bank, in terms of asset base and net worth as of mid-Jan 2019.  The bank’s major promoters are NB International, Ireland (50%) and Rastriya Beema Sansthan (9.67%). Including NB International, the family members of the Chaudhary Group own a majority stake (~53%) in the bank. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah is the bank’s, Chief Executive Officer. Nabil’s equity shares are listed on the Nepal Stock Exchange with the second highest market capitalization (among banking sector stocks) as of mid-December 2018.  Nabil has a presence throughout the country through 118 branches, two extension counters and 176 ATMs. Its market share was 5.62%, in terms of the deposit base, and 5.53% of its total advances were in the Nepalese commercial banking industry, as of mid-January 2019. Nabil reported a profit after tax (PAT) of ~NPR 3,981 million in 2018 on an asset base of NPR 160,978 million as of mid-July-2018. In H1 FY2019, Nabil reported PAT of ~NPR 2,176 million on an asset base of NPR 177,672 million. As of H1 FY2019, Nabil’s CRAR was 11.95% with CET 1 of 10.78% and gross NPAs of 0.61%. In terms of the technology platform, Nabil has implemented Finacle across all its branches. Objective  About the issue Nabil Bank is issuing ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" from today (Chaitra 2) to Chaitra 5, 2076. In the case of under-subscription, the issue will be extended to Chaitra 16, 2076. The bank is issuing a total of 20 Lakh units of debentures at par value of Rs.1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs.2 Arba and will be providing 10% interest rate. The debenture will mature in 6 years i.e. in 2082. Out of the total issue, 8 Lakh units (40% of the issue) will be issued to the general public while the remaining 12 Lakh units (60% of the issue) will be privately placed. Laxmi Capital Market Limited has been appointed as the issue manager. The interested applicants can apply for a minimum of 25 units and no limit has been set for maximum units. Offer Letter  Capital structure  Shareholding structure  Primary shareholders  Board of Directors  Management Team  *There are 1,079 employees in total. Rating ICRA Nepal has assigned [ICRANP] LAA- (pronounced ICRA NP L double A minus) to the proposed subordinated debenture programme of NPR 2,000 million of Nabil Bank Limited. The subordinated debenture rating of AA- is one notch lower than the rating of AA. Instruments with AA- rating are considered to have a high degree of safety regarding the timely servicing of financial obligations. Such instruments carry very low credit risk. ICRA Nepal has also reaffirmed the rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA- (pronounced ICRA NP Issuer Rating Double A minus) to Nabil Bank Limited (Nabil). The entities with [ICRANP-IR] AA- rating are considered to have high degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such issuers carry very low credit risk. The rating is only an opinion on the general creditworthiness of the rated entity and not specific to any particular debt instrument. Strength Weakness Source: https://www.icranepal.com/ Financial indicators  Market share  Source: Company Prospectus and ICRA Nepal rating report Company profile Nabil Bank Limited, the first private-sector class A commercial bank in Nepal, started commercial operations in July 1984 as Nepal Arab Bank Limited. Nabil started off as a joint venture with Emirates Bank International. The latter divested its stake in Nabil which was ultimately taken over by NB International, an Ireland based special purpose vehicle associated with CG Group. The name was changed to Nabil Bank, following the withdrawal of its joint venture partner -Emirates Bank International, in 1997. Headquartered in Kathmandu, Nabil is the second-largest private sector commercial bank, in terms of asset base and net worth as of mid-Jan 2019.  The bank’s major promoters are NB International, Ireland (50%) and Rastriya Beema Sansthan (9.67%). Including NB International, the family members of the Chaudhary Group own a majority stake (~53%) in the bank. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah is the bank’s, Chief Executive Officer. Nabil’s equity shares are listed on the Nepal Stock Exchange with the second highest market capitalization (among banking sector stocks) as of mid-December 2018.  Nabil has a presence throughout the country through 118 branches, two extension counters and 176 ATMs. Its market share was 5.62%, in terms of the deposit base, and 5.53% of its total advances were in the Nepalese commercial banking industry, as of mid-January 2019. Nabil reported a profit after tax (PAT) of ~NPR 3,981 million in 2018 on an asset base of NPR 160,978 million as of mid-July-2018. In H1 FY2019, Nabil reported PAT of ~NPR 2,176 million on an asset base of NPR 177,672 million. As of H1 FY2019, Nabil’s CRAR was 11.95% with CET 1 of 10.78% and gross NPAs of 0.61%. In terms of the technology platform, Nabil has implemented Finacle across all its branches. Objective  About the issue Nabil Bank is issuing ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" from today (Chaitra 2) to Chaitra 5, 2076. In the case of under-subscription, the issue will be extended to Chaitra 16, 2076. The bank is issuing a total of 20 Lakh units of debentures at par value of Rs.1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs.2 Arba and will be providing 10% interest rate. The debenture will mature in 6 years i.e. in 2082. Out of the total issue, 8 Lakh units (40% of the issue) will be issued to the general public while the remaining 12 Lakh units (60% of the issue) will be privately placed. Laxmi Capital Market Limited has been appointed as the issue manager. The interested applicants can apply for a minimum of 25 units and no limit has been set for maximum units. Offer Letter  Capital structure  Shareholding structure  Primary shareholders  Board of Directors  Management Team  *There are 1,079 employees in total. Rating ICRA Nepal has assigned [ICRANP] LAA- (pronounced ICRA NP L double A minus) to the proposed subordinated debenture programme of NPR 2,000 million of Nabil Bank Limited. The subordinated debenture rating of AA- is one notch lower than the rating of AA. Instruments with AA- rating are considered to have a high degree of safety regarding the timely servicing of financial obligations. Such instruments carry very low credit risk. ICRA Nepal has also reaffirmed the rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA- (pronounced ICRA NP Issuer Rating Double A minus) to Nabil Bank Limited (Nabil). The entities with [ICRANP-IR] AA- rating are considered to have high degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such issuers carry very low credit risk. The rating is only an opinion on the general creditworthiness of the rated entity and not specific to any particular debt instrument. Strength Weakness Source: https://www.icranepal.com/ Financial indicators  Market share  Source: Company Prospectus and ICRA Nepal rating report Company profile Nabil Bank Limited, the first private-sector class A commercial bank in Nepal, started commercial operations in July 1984 as Nepal Arab Bank Limited. Nabil started off as a joint venture with Emirates Bank International. The latter divested its stake in Nabil which was ultimately taken over by NB International, an Ireland based special purpose vehicle associated with CG Group. The name was changed to Nabil Bank, following the withdrawal of its joint venture partner -Emirates Bank International, in 1997. Headquartered in Kathmandu, Nabil is the second-largest private sector commercial bank, in terms of asset base and net worth as of mid-Jan 2019.  The bank’s major promoters are NB International, Ireland (50%) and Rastriya Beema Sansthan (9.67%). Including NB International, the family members of the Chaudhary Group own a majority stake (~53%) in the bank. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah is the bank’s, Chief Executive Officer. Nabil’s equity shares are listed on the Nepal Stock Exchange with the second highest market capitalization (among banking sector stocks) as of mid-December 2018.  Nabil has a presence throughout the country through 118 branches, two extension counters and 176 ATMs. Its market share was 5.62%, in terms of the deposit base, and 5.53% of its total advances were in the Nepalese commercial banking industry, as of mid-January 2019. Nabil reported a profit after tax (PAT) of ~NPR 3,981 million in 2018 on an asset base of NPR 160,978 million as of mid-July-2018. In H1 FY2019, Nabil reported PAT of ~NPR 2,176 million on an asset base of NPR 177,672 million. As of H1 FY2019, Nabil’s CRAR was 11.95% with CET 1 of 10.78% and gross NPAs of 0.61%. In terms of the technology platform, Nabil has implemented Finacle across all its branches. Objective  About the issue Nabil Bank is issuing ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" from today (Chaitra 2) to Chaitra 5, 2076. In the case of under-subscription, the issue will be extended to Chaitra 16, 2076. The bank is issuing a total of 20 Lakh units of debentures at par value of Rs.1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs.2 Arba and will be providing 10% interest rate. The debenture will mature in 6 years i.e. in 2082. Out of the total issue, 8 Lakh units (40% of the issue) will be issued to the general public while the remaining 12 Lakh units (60% of the issue) will be privately placed. Laxmi Capital Market Limited has been appointed as the issue manager. The interested applicants can apply for a minimum of 25 units and no limit has been set for maximum units. Offer Letter  Capital structure  Shareholding structure  Primary shareholders  Board of Directors  Management Team  *There are 1,079 employees in total. Rating ICRA Nepal has assigned [ICRANP] LAA- (pronounced ICRA NP L double A minus) to the proposed subordinated debenture programme of NPR 2,000 million of Nabil Bank Limited. The subordinated debenture rating of AA- is one notch lower than the rating of AA. Instruments with AA- rating are considered to have a high degree of safety regarding the timely servicing of financial obligations. Such instruments carry very low credit risk. ICRA Nepal has also reaffirmed the rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA- (pronounced ICRA NP Issuer Rating Double A minus) to Nabil Bank Limited (Nabil). The entities with [ICRANP-IR] AA- rating are considered to have high degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such issuers carry very low credit risk. The rating is only an opinion on the general creditworthiness of the rated entity and not specific to any particular debt instrument. Strength Weakness Source: https://www.icranepal.com/ Financial indicators  Market share  Source: Company Prospectus and ICRA Nepal rating report "
2020-03-15,"""10% Nabil Debenture 2082""  issue opens from today; Bank to collect Rs 2 arba from the issuance",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/10-nabil-debenture-2082-issue-opens-from-today-bank-to-collect-rs-2-arba-from-the-issuance,"Nabil Bank is issuing ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" from today (Chaitra 2) to Chaitra 5, 2076. In the case of under-subscription, the issue will be extended to Chaitra 16, 2076. The bank is issuing a total of 20 Lakh units of debentures at par value of Rs.1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs.2 Arba and will be providing 10% interest rate. The debenture will mature in 6 years i.e. in 2082. Out of the total issue, 8 Lakh units (40% of the issue) will be issued to the general public while the remaining 12 Lakh units (60% of the issue) will be privately placed. Laxmi Capital Market Limited has been appointed as the issue manager. The interested applicants can apply for a minimum of 25 units and no limit has been set for maximum units. Offer Letter Nabil Bank is issuing ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" from today (Chaitra 2) to Chaitra 5, 2076. In the case of under-subscription, the issue will be extended to Chaitra 16, 2076. The bank is issuing a total of 20 Lakh units of debentures at par value of Rs.1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs.2 Arba and will be providing 10% interest rate. The debenture will mature in 6 years i.e. in 2082. Out of the total issue, 8 Lakh units (40% of the issue) will be issued to the general public while the remaining 12 Lakh units (60% of the issue) will be privately placed. Laxmi Capital Market Limited has been appointed as the issue manager. The interested applicants can apply for a minimum of 25 units and no limit has been set for maximum units. Offer Letter Nabil Bank is issuing ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" from today (Chaitra 2) to Chaitra 5, 2076. In the case of under-subscription, the issue will be extended to Chaitra 16, 2076. The bank is issuing a total of 20 Lakh units of debentures at par value of Rs.1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs.2 Arba and will be providing 10% interest rate. The debenture will mature in 6 years i.e. in 2082. Out of the total issue, 8 Lakh units (40% of the issue) will be issued to the general public while the remaining 12 Lakh units (60% of the issue) will be privately placed. Laxmi Capital Market Limited has been appointed as the issue manager. The interested applicants can apply for a minimum of 25 units and no limit has been set for maximum units. Offer Letter "
2020-03-13,The latest average base rate of commercial banks stand at 9.47%; look at other important interest rates,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/the-latest-average-base-rate-of-commercial-banks-stand-at-947-look-at-other-important-interest-rates,"Base rate, as defined by Nepal Rastra Bank, includes all cost of funds, cost of liquidity (CRR and SLR), and cost of operation. If a bank’s returns on government securities is lower than deposit collection rate, they can add the shortfall in the base rate. This is the minimum rate banks have to charge their customers. Banks usually add a premium to the base rate to derive the total rate of interest on a particular type of loan facility. This makes the loan facility provided by different banks vary in the interest rate charged. A list has been prepared considering the latest base rate, spread rate, marginal loan rate, savings rate and fixed deposit rate for individuals.  The average base rate of commercial banks stood at 9.50% in the previous quarter while the average spread rate stood at 5.07% in the same period. Considering the latest base rate, till the end of Poush and Magh 2076, the average has fallen to 9.47%. Similarly, the average spread rate in the review period stood at 5.05%. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) charges the highest base rate at 11.04% while Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) charges the lowest at 6.64%. In terms of spread rate, Standard Charted Bank (SCB) leads with 5.93% while Laxmi Bank Limited (LBL) and Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) have the lowest spread rate at 4.44%. The maximum interest on savings account stood at 6.50% while the lowest interest stood at 3% provided by Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI). The maximum fixed deposit rate provided by all commercial banks stood at 9.25% for individuals. Depending upon the amount and period of deposit, the lowest yield on fixed deposit is provided by Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) at 6%. Base rate, as defined by Nepal Rastra Bank, includes all cost of funds, cost of liquidity (CRR and SLR), and cost of operation. If a bank’s returns on government securities is lower than deposit collection rate, they can add the shortfall in the base rate. This is the minimum rate banks have to charge their customers. Banks usually add a premium to the base rate to derive the total rate of interest on a particular type of loan facility. This makes the loan facility provided by different banks vary in the interest rate charged. A list has been prepared considering the latest base rate, spread rate, marginal loan rate, savings rate and fixed deposit rate for individuals.  The average base rate of commercial banks stood at 9.50% in the previous quarter while the average spread rate stood at 5.07% in the same period. Considering the latest base rate, till the end of Poush and Magh 2076, the average has fallen to 9.47%. Similarly, the average spread rate in the review period stood at 5.05%. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) charges the highest base rate at 11.04% while Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) charges the lowest at 6.64%. In terms of spread rate, Standard Charted Bank (SCB) leads with 5.93% while Laxmi Bank Limited (LBL) and Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) have the lowest spread rate at 4.44%. The maximum interest on savings account stood at 6.50% while the lowest interest stood at 3% provided by Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI). The maximum fixed deposit rate provided by all commercial banks stood at 9.25% for individuals. Depending upon the amount and period of deposit, the lowest yield on fixed deposit is provided by Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) at 6%. Base rate, as defined by Nepal Rastra Bank, includes all cost of funds, cost of liquidity (CRR and SLR), and cost of operation. If a bank’s returns on government securities is lower than deposit collection rate, they can add the shortfall in the base rate. This is the minimum rate banks have to charge their customers. Banks usually add a premium to the base rate to derive the total rate of interest on a particular type of loan facility. This makes the loan facility provided by different banks vary in the interest rate charged. A list has been prepared considering the latest base rate, spread rate, marginal loan rate, savings rate and fixed deposit rate for individuals.  The average base rate of commercial banks stood at 9.50% in the previous quarter while the average spread rate stood at 5.07% in the same period. Considering the latest base rate, till the end of Poush and Magh 2076, the average has fallen to 9.47%. Similarly, the average spread rate in the review period stood at 5.05%. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) charges the highest base rate at 11.04% while Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) charges the lowest at 6.64%. In terms of spread rate, Standard Charted Bank (SCB) leads with 5.93% while Laxmi Bank Limited (LBL) and Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) have the lowest spread rate at 4.44%. The maximum interest on savings account stood at 6.50% while the lowest interest stood at 3% provided by Nepal SBI Bank Limited (SBI). The maximum fixed deposit rate provided by all commercial banks stood at 9.25% for individuals. Depending upon the amount and period of deposit, the lowest yield on fixed deposit is provided by Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) at 6%. "
2020-03-11,Nabil Bank Card Customers to get special privileges at Tesla Diagnostic Clinic,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-card-customers-to-get-special-privileges-at-tesla-diagnostic-clinic,"Nabil Bank has entered into an alliance with Tesla Diagnostic Clinic Private Limited under which Nabil Bank’s cardholders [Debit, Credit and Prepaid] & shareholders will receive a special discount and other privileges at the clinic. Tesla Diagnostic Clinic Private Limited would try to provide fast track medical care services to Nabil Bank’s Cardholders [Debit, Prepaid & Credit] and shareholders. Mr. Sanat K Paudel, Head-Cards & e-Banking Channel of Nabil Bank Ltd said “In continuation of our ongoing efforts to provide better services to our customers, we are happy to announce the alliance with Tesla Diagnostic Clinic Private Limited. We believe this partnership will provide better advantages to our cardholders & shareholders” Ms. Rinku Shrestha, CEO of Tesla Diagnostic Clinic stated “With our commitment to the service of the people of Nepal, we at Tesla Diagnostic Clinic are very excited about this alliance with Nabil Bank and believe it is another step forward to serve the nation”. Tesla Diagnostic Clinic is a newly established diagnostic clinic located in the heart of Kathmandu. It is established by well experienced health professionals with a vision to advance the health standards in Nepal by providing excellent diagnostic service. Nabil Bank is providing its services through a wide network of 118 branches and 176 ATMs throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe in its pursuit of being the Bank of 1st Choice. Nabil Bank has entered into an alliance with Tesla Diagnostic Clinic Private Limited under which Nabil Bank’s cardholders [Debit, Credit and Prepaid] & shareholders will receive a special discount and other privileges at the clinic. Tesla Diagnostic Clinic Private Limited would try to provide fast track medical care services to Nabil Bank’s Cardholders [Debit, Prepaid & Credit] and shareholders. Mr. Sanat K Paudel, Head-Cards & e-Banking Channel of Nabil Bank Ltd said “In continuation of our ongoing efforts to provide better services to our customers, we are happy to announce the alliance with Tesla Diagnostic Clinic Private Limited. We believe this partnership will provide better advantages to our cardholders & shareholders” Ms. Rinku Shrestha, CEO of Tesla Diagnostic Clinic stated “With our commitment to the service of the people of Nepal, we at Tesla Diagnostic Clinic are very excited about this alliance with Nabil Bank and believe it is another step forward to serve the nation”. Tesla Diagnostic Clinic is a newly established diagnostic clinic located in the heart of Kathmandu. It is established by well experienced health professionals with a vision to advance the health standards in Nepal by providing excellent diagnostic service. Nabil Bank is providing its services through a wide network of 118 branches and 176 ATMs throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe in its pursuit of being the Bank of 1st Choice. Nabil Bank has entered into an alliance with Tesla Diagnostic Clinic Private Limited under which Nabil Bank’s cardholders [Debit, Credit and Prepaid] & shareholders will receive a special discount and other privileges at the clinic. Tesla Diagnostic Clinic Private Limited would try to provide fast track medical care services to Nabil Bank’s Cardholders [Debit, Prepaid & Credit] and shareholders. Mr. Sanat K Paudel, Head-Cards & e-Banking Channel of Nabil Bank Ltd said “In continuation of our ongoing efforts to provide better services to our customers, we are happy to announce the alliance with Tesla Diagnostic Clinic Private Limited. We believe this partnership will provide better advantages to our cardholders & shareholders” Ms. Rinku Shrestha, CEO of Tesla Diagnostic Clinic stated “With our commitment to the service of the people of Nepal, we at Tesla Diagnostic Clinic are very excited about this alliance with Nabil Bank and believe it is another step forward to serve the nation”. Tesla Diagnostic Clinic is a newly established diagnostic clinic located in the heart of Kathmandu. It is established by well experienced health professionals with a vision to advance the health standards in Nepal by providing excellent diagnostic service. Nabil Bank is providing its services through a wide network of 118 branches and 176 ATMs throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe in its pursuit of being the Bank of 1st Choice. "
2020-03-10,"YES BANK, India Crisis and Lesson to We Nepalese Investors and Banking Industry",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/yes-bank-india-crisis-and-lesson-to-we-nepalese-investors-and-banking-industry,"Visit any Economic News Channel and Online Portals and you find YES bank all over it. Yes, you heard and read it right. Yes Bank is in Crisis. Panicked Yes Bank customers were seen queuing up at the bank's ATMs at various locations, but to no avail as most of the money-dispensing machines have no cash, after the Reserve Bank of India placed the crisis-hit lender under a moratorium.  Customers are also facing trouble because net banking services are not working and some even complained that their credit cards are also not working. The India Government has recently put private sector lender Yes Bank under moratorium till April 3 and capped deposit withdrawal at ₹50,000 after severe deterioration of the bank’s financial position. However, Yes Bank’s books show that warning bells had been ringing for more than a year. The bank went on a loan spree even as bad loans mounted. Meanwhile, depositors withdrew large amounts, resulting in the bank’s profitability nose-diving in the last two fiscals. Loan Spree: In the last five years, Yes Bank went on a loaning spree. Its total advances rose by 334% between FY14 and FY19, the highest rise among comparable banks in the period.  Bad loans multiply: Many borrowers started defaulting. The bank’s Gross NPA% (loans overdue for >90 days) zoomed to 7.39% as of Sept. ‘19, the highest among comparable banks.  While bad loans piled up, Yes Bank did not make enough provisions in its profits. Its Provision Coverage Ratio in FY19 was 43.1%, the lowest among comparable banks. RBI says a PCR of >70% is desirable.  Amidst the loan mess, customers withdrew large amounts, resulting in the credit-deposit ratio of Yes Bank crossing 100% (it lent more than what it received) in FY18, 19.  The loan spree & high NPA meant poor profitability, gauged by Yes Bank’s sinking Return on Assets (RoA) (RoA = net income/ total assets). Graph shows year-on-year change in RoA. For instance, Yes Bank's RoA in FY19 was 0.52, in FY18 it was 1.78. Thus the y-o-y change of -1.26 in FY19 is plotted in the graph.  Yes Bank’s y-o-y change of RoA sinked to -1.26 in FY19, the highest slump  among comparable banks. Investors sensed trouble: Though the bank’s troubles came as a shock to many, investors sensed it early. The bank’s stock price fell steadily in the past year.  Relevance to Our Nepalese Banking: Here is the full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 2076/77:  Also, below is the table showing Aggregate of Loans and Advances made upto 2nd Quarter, FY 2076-77. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 96.82 arba. 11 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 96.82 arba. (Q2, FY2076-77):  Also, the Nepal Rastra Bank published the annual macro-economic data for the year of 2019/20.  The point being, a bank does not go into crisis all of a sudden. It shows signs beforehand- we just need to properly analyze the data and disclosures made at frequent intervals. Sadly, It has still been the tendency of most of we Nepalese stock investors to just see the percentage increase or decrease in various indicators of banks and financial institutions rather than reading the entire Quarterly or Annual Reports of these institutions.  Various useful disclosures are made compulsory by the regulatory body to be published with the quarterly and annual reports, but we give zero relevance and don’t bother to read those annexure. The table in the reports just present us with the figures but the actual nature or matters that have significant importance related to those figures in the chart are found written in the notes and annexure attached below those data tables. Say, for example, there may be huge provision amount in the report. Now, we need to see in the Annexures what the provision is actually for. It may mention about the litigation pending. Then , we need to know the case is winnable or a loss case as per Mgt. View. Similarly, there may be huge amount in Reserves but the distributable portion is very less due to the Regulatory Adjustments. The news portals and the Online media related to this sector, where prices are highly sensitive to these reports, only make cheesy headlines during publish of quarterly or annual reports such as “ 102% rise in…..” or “EPS fell sharply by….%”. Hence it is of utmost importance as an Investor himself /herself to go through the entire pdf of reports published of the stocks invested or potential future investments, be it from the news portals or the official websites of the co. itself,rather than driving sentiments and making irrational decisions based on the headlines appearing on your social accounts and media pages. Knowing the reason for such performance of your company is equally important. May be, it is relevant to this quarter and it may reverse in Next quarter and you, as an investor, panicked at the moment itself without knowing the true reason. So, knowing whether the impact is short term or long term on the performance is equally and most important. Don’t you think so??? Say,for example, the Q2 report of a bank says huge provisioning due to bad loans. But the annexure or the CEO’s Interview says the bank has initiated legal actions against such defaulters and has attached the defaulter’s assets for recovery. So, till the next quarter the bank may get back its stuck money from those defaulters and accordingly, the report for the upcoming quarter is likely to improve, thereby improving your investment EPS and Expected Return. Now, what if you did not read these annexure or additional info and sold your stocks just to find the price rise or huge dividend at the end of the year, wouldn’t you as an investor feel as if you have been fooled, that too by yourself, and no outsider?? Decide for yourself!! Visit any Economic News Channel and Online Portals and you find YES bank all over it. Yes, you heard and read it right. Yes Bank is in Crisis. Panicked Yes Bank customers were seen queuing up at the bank's ATMs at various locations, but to no avail as most of the money-dispensing machines have no cash, after the Reserve Bank of India placed the crisis-hit lender under a moratorium.  Customers are also facing trouble because net banking services are not working and some even complained that their credit cards are also not working. The India Government has recently put private sector lender Yes Bank under moratorium till April 3 and capped deposit withdrawal at ₹50,000 after severe deterioration of the bank’s financial position. However, Yes Bank’s books show that warning bells had been ringing for more than a year. The bank went on a loan spree even as bad loans mounted. Meanwhile, depositors withdrew large amounts, resulting in the bank’s profitability nose-diving in the last two fiscals. Loan Spree: In the last five years, Yes Bank went on a loaning spree. Its total advances rose by 334% between FY14 and FY19, the highest rise among comparable banks in the period.  Bad loans multiply: Many borrowers started defaulting. The bank’s Gross NPA% (loans overdue for >90 days) zoomed to 7.39% as of Sept. ‘19, the highest among comparable banks.  While bad loans piled up, Yes Bank did not make enough provisions in its profits. Its Provision Coverage Ratio in FY19 was 43.1%, the lowest among comparable banks. RBI says a PCR of >70% is desirable.  Amidst the loan mess, customers withdrew large amounts, resulting in the credit-deposit ratio of Yes Bank crossing 100% (it lent more than what it received) in FY18, 19.  The loan spree & high NPA meant poor profitability, gauged by Yes Bank’s sinking Return on Assets (RoA) (RoA = net income/ total assets). Graph shows year-on-year change in RoA. For instance, Yes Bank's RoA in FY19 was 0.52, in FY18 it was 1.78. Thus the y-o-y change of -1.26 in FY19 is plotted in the graph.  Yes Bank’s y-o-y change of RoA sinked to -1.26 in FY19, the highest slump  among comparable banks. Investors sensed trouble: Though the bank’s troubles came as a shock to many, investors sensed it early. The bank’s stock price fell steadily in the past year.  Relevance to Our Nepalese Banking: Here is the full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 2076/77:  Also, below is the table showing Aggregate of Loans and Advances made upto 2nd Quarter, FY 2076-77. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 96.82 arba. 11 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 96.82 arba. (Q2, FY2076-77):  Also, the Nepal Rastra Bank published the annual macro-economic data for the year of 2019/20.  The point being, a bank does not go into crisis all of a sudden. It shows signs beforehand- we just need to properly analyze the data and disclosures made at frequent intervals. Sadly, It has still been the tendency of most of we Nepalese stock investors to just see the percentage increase or decrease in various indicators of banks and financial institutions rather than reading the entire Quarterly or Annual Reports of these institutions.  Various useful disclosures are made compulsory by the regulatory body to be published with the quarterly and annual reports, but we give zero relevance and don’t bother to read those annexure. The table in the reports just present us with the figures but the actual nature or matters that have significant importance related to those figures in the chart are found written in the notes and annexure attached below those data tables. Say, for example, there may be huge provision amount in the report. Now, we need to see in the Annexures what the provision is actually for. It may mention about the litigation pending. Then , we need to know the case is winnable or a loss case as per Mgt. View. Similarly, there may be huge amount in Reserves but the distributable portion is very less due to the Regulatory Adjustments. The news portals and the Online media related to this sector, where prices are highly sensitive to these reports, only make cheesy headlines during publish of quarterly or annual reports such as “ 102% rise in…..” or “EPS fell sharply by….%”. Hence it is of utmost importance as an Investor himself /herself to go through the entire pdf of reports published of the stocks invested or potential future investments, be it from the news portals or the official websites of the co. itself,rather than driving sentiments and making irrational decisions based on the headlines appearing on your social accounts and media pages. Knowing the reason for such performance of your company is equally important. May be, it is relevant to this quarter and it may reverse in Next quarter and you, as an investor, panicked at the moment itself without knowing the true reason. So, knowing whether the impact is short term or long term on the performance is equally and most important. Don’t you think so??? Say,for example, the Q2 report of a bank says huge provisioning due to bad loans. But the annexure or the CEO’s Interview says the bank has initiated legal actions against such defaulters and has attached the defaulter’s assets for recovery. So, till the next quarter the bank may get back its stuck money from those defaulters and accordingly, the report for the upcoming quarter is likely to improve, thereby improving your investment EPS and Expected Return. Now, what if you did not read these annexure or additional info and sold your stocks just to find the price rise or huge dividend at the end of the year, wouldn’t you as an investor feel as if you have been fooled, that too by yourself, and no outsider?? Decide for yourself!! Visit any Economic News Channel and Online Portals and you find YES bank all over it. Yes, you heard and read it right. Yes Bank is in Crisis. Panicked Yes Bank customers were seen queuing up at the bank's ATMs at various locations, but to no avail as most of the money-dispensing machines have no cash, after the Reserve Bank of India placed the crisis-hit lender under a moratorium.  Customers are also facing trouble because net banking services are not working and some even complained that their credit cards are also not working. The India Government has recently put private sector lender Yes Bank under moratorium till April 3 and capped deposit withdrawal at ₹50,000 after severe deterioration of the bank’s financial position. However, Yes Bank’s books show that warning bells had been ringing for more than a year. The bank went on a loan spree even as bad loans mounted. Meanwhile, depositors withdrew large amounts, resulting in the bank’s profitability nose-diving in the last two fiscals. Loan Spree: In the last five years, Yes Bank went on a loaning spree. Its total advances rose by 334% between FY14 and FY19, the highest rise among comparable banks in the period.  Bad loans multiply: Many borrowers started defaulting. The bank’s Gross NPA% (loans overdue for >90 days) zoomed to 7.39% as of Sept. ‘19, the highest among comparable banks.  While bad loans piled up, Yes Bank did not make enough provisions in its profits. Its Provision Coverage Ratio in FY19 was 43.1%, the lowest among comparable banks. RBI says a PCR of >70% is desirable.  Amidst the loan mess, customers withdrew large amounts, resulting in the credit-deposit ratio of Yes Bank crossing 100% (it lent more than what it received) in FY18, 19.  The loan spree & high NPA meant poor profitability, gauged by Yes Bank’s sinking Return on Assets (RoA) (RoA = net income/ total assets). Graph shows year-on-year change in RoA. For instance, Yes Bank's RoA in FY19 was 0.52, in FY18 it was 1.78. Thus the y-o-y change of -1.26 in FY19 is plotted in the graph.  Yes Bank’s y-o-y change of RoA sinked to -1.26 in FY19, the highest slump  among comparable banks. Investors sensed trouble: Though the bank’s troubles came as a shock to many, investors sensed it early. The bank’s stock price fell steadily in the past year.  Relevance to Our Nepalese Banking: Here is the full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 2076/77:  Also, below is the table showing Aggregate of Loans and Advances made upto 2nd Quarter, FY 2076-77. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 96.82 arba. 11 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 96.82 arba. (Q2, FY2076-77):  Also, the Nepal Rastra Bank published the annual macro-economic data for the year of 2019/20.  The point being, a bank does not go into crisis all of a sudden. It shows signs beforehand- we just need to properly analyze the data and disclosures made at frequent intervals. Sadly, It has still been the tendency of most of we Nepalese stock investors to just see the percentage increase or decrease in various indicators of banks and financial institutions rather than reading the entire Quarterly or Annual Reports of these institutions.  Various useful disclosures are made compulsory by the regulatory body to be published with the quarterly and annual reports, but we give zero relevance and don’t bother to read those annexure. The table in the reports just present us with the figures but the actual nature or matters that have significant importance related to those figures in the chart are found written in the notes and annexure attached below those data tables. Say, for example, there may be huge provision amount in the report. Now, we need to see in the Annexures what the provision is actually for. It may mention about the litigation pending. Then , we need to know the case is winnable or a loss case as per Mgt. View. Similarly, there may be huge amount in Reserves but the distributable portion is very less due to the Regulatory Adjustments. The news portals and the Online media related to this sector, where prices are highly sensitive to these reports, only make cheesy headlines during publish of quarterly or annual reports such as “ 102% rise in…..” or “EPS fell sharply by….%”. Hence it is of utmost importance as an Investor himself /herself to go through the entire pdf of reports published of the stocks invested or potential future investments, be it from the news portals or the official websites of the co. itself,rather than driving sentiments and making irrational decisions based on the headlines appearing on your social accounts and media pages. Knowing the reason for such performance of your company is equally important. May be, it is relevant to this quarter and it may reverse in Next quarter and you, as an investor, panicked at the moment itself without knowing the true reason. So, knowing whether the impact is short term or long term on the performance is equally and most important. Don’t you think so??? Say,for example, the Q2 report of a bank says huge provisioning due to bad loans. But the annexure or the CEO’s Interview says the bank has initiated legal actions against such defaulters and has attached the defaulter’s assets for recovery. So, till the next quarter the bank may get back its stuck money from those defaulters and accordingly, the report for the upcoming quarter is likely to improve, thereby improving your investment EPS and Expected Return. Now, what if you did not read these annexure or additional info and sold your stocks just to find the price rise or huge dividend at the end of the year, wouldn’t you as an investor feel as if you have been fooled, that too by yourself, and no outsider?? Decide for yourself!! "
2020-03-03,"""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" opening from Chaitra 02, 2076; Bank to collect Rs 2 arba from the issuance",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/10-nabil-debenture-2082-opening-from-chaitra-02-2076-bank-to-collect-rs-2-arba-from-the-issuance,"Nabil Bank is issuing ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" from Chaitra 02 to Chaitra 05, 2076. In the case of under-subscription, the issue will be extended to Chaitra 16, 2076. The bank is issuing a total of 20 Lakh units of debentures at par value of Rs.1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs.2 Arba and will be providing 10% interest rate. The debenture will mature in 6 years i.e. in 2082. Out of the total issue, 8 Lakh units (40% of the issue) will be issued to the general public while the remaining 12 Lakh units (60% of the issue) will be privately placed. Laxmi Capital Market Limited has been appointed as the issue manager. The interested applicants can apply for a minimum of 25 units and no limit has been set for maximum units. Offer Letter Nabil Bank is issuing ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" from Chaitra 02 to Chaitra 05, 2076. In the case of under-subscription, the issue will be extended to Chaitra 16, 2076. The bank is issuing a total of 20 Lakh units of debentures at par value of Rs.1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs.2 Arba and will be providing 10% interest rate. The debenture will mature in 6 years i.e. in 2082. Out of the total issue, 8 Lakh units (40% of the issue) will be issued to the general public while the remaining 12 Lakh units (60% of the issue) will be privately placed. Laxmi Capital Market Limited has been appointed as the issue manager. The interested applicants can apply for a minimum of 25 units and no limit has been set for maximum units. Offer Letter Nabil Bank is issuing ""10% Nabil Debenture 2082"" from Chaitra 02 to Chaitra 05, 2076. In the case of under-subscription, the issue will be extended to Chaitra 16, 2076. The bank is issuing a total of 20 Lakh units of debentures at par value of Rs.1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs.2 Arba and will be providing 10% interest rate. The debenture will mature in 6 years i.e. in 2082. Out of the total issue, 8 Lakh units (40% of the issue) will be issued to the general public while the remaining 12 Lakh units (60% of the issue) will be privately placed. Laxmi Capital Market Limited has been appointed as the issue manager. The interested applicants can apply for a minimum of 25 units and no limit has been set for maximum units. Offer Letter "
2020-03-02,Bonus shares of four companies listed on NEPSE; more than 20 Million units made tradeable,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/bonus-shares-of-four-companies-listed-on-nepse-more-than-20-million-units-made-tradeable,"Nepal Stock Exchange Limited (NEPSE) has published notice regarding listing of bonus shares of four companies. As per the notice, 10,856,520 Units Bonus Shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has been listed on the stock exchange. The bank had issued 12% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend out of profits of FY 75/76. Similarly, 9,001,626.02 Units Bonus Shares of Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) has been listed on the stock exchange. The bank had issued 10% bonus shares and 15.26% cash dividend out of profits of FY 75/76. NEPSE has also listed 214,500 Units Bonus Shares of Sabaiko Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SABSL) on the stock exchange. The microfinance company had issued 13% bonus shares out of profits of FY 75/76. Finally, 531,300 Units Bonus Shares of Kanchan Development Bank (KADBL) has been listed on the stock exchange. The development bank had issued 10% bonus shares and 6% cash dividend out of profits of FY 75/76. A total of 20,603,946.02 units have been made tradeable on the secondary market. Nepal Stock Exchange Limited (NEPSE) has published notice regarding listing of bonus shares of four companies. As per the notice, 10,856,520 Units Bonus Shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has been listed on the stock exchange. The bank had issued 12% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend out of profits of FY 75/76. Similarly, 9,001,626.02 Units Bonus Shares of Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) has been listed on the stock exchange. The bank had issued 10% bonus shares and 15.26% cash dividend out of profits of FY 75/76. NEPSE has also listed 214,500 Units Bonus Shares of Sabaiko Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SABSL) on the stock exchange. The microfinance company had issued 13% bonus shares out of profits of FY 75/76. Finally, 531,300 Units Bonus Shares of Kanchan Development Bank (KADBL) has been listed on the stock exchange. The development bank had issued 10% bonus shares and 6% cash dividend out of profits of FY 75/76. A total of 20,603,946.02 units have been made tradeable on the secondary market. Nepal Stock Exchange Limited (NEPSE) has published notice regarding listing of bonus shares of four companies. As per the notice, 10,856,520 Units Bonus Shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has been listed on the stock exchange. The bank had issued 12% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend out of profits of FY 75/76. Similarly, 9,001,626.02 Units Bonus Shares of Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) has been listed on the stock exchange. The bank had issued 10% bonus shares and 15.26% cash dividend out of profits of FY 75/76. NEPSE has also listed 214,500 Units Bonus Shares of Sabaiko Laghubitta Bittiya Sanstha Limited (SABSL) on the stock exchange. The microfinance company had issued 13% bonus shares out of profits of FY 75/76. Finally, 531,300 Units Bonus Shares of Kanchan Development Bank (KADBL) has been listed on the stock exchange. The development bank had issued 10% bonus shares and 6% cash dividend out of profits of FY 75/76. A total of 20,603,946.02 units have been made tradeable on the secondary market. "
2020-02-24,"As the market takes upward stride, where does the PE ratio of listed companies stand? Find out the latest PE ratio of all sectors and all companies",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/as-the-market-takes-upward-stride-where-does-the-pe-ratio-of-listed-companies-stand-find-out-the-latest-pe-ratio-of-all-sectors-and-all-companies-2020-02-24,"The secondary market of Nepal is striding upwards with the NEPSE index rising along with the share prices of many listed companies. This rise in prices has a significant impact on the price to earnings ratio of the companies relative to the ratio that was posted in the second quarter report of the companies. The article below shows the PE ratio of all listed companies categorized based on the sector. The prices are taken as of Falgun 11, 2076 (Yesterday). Similarly, the annualized EPS is taken from the second-quarter report and has been adjusted for any dividend that has been declared and approved by the company. Commercial Bank The industry average PE ratio of commercial banks stands at 14.86 times as of yesterday. The table below shows the PE ratio of each bank individually.   Development Bank The industry average PE ratio of the Development Bank Sector is higher than that of commercial banks at 16.80 times. The table below shows the list of development banks and their latest PE ratio:  The above table only includes 23 development banks as the majority are under the merger and acquisition process due to which their transaction has been halted in NEPSE. Likewise, KRBL is the only development bank that hasn't published its Q2 report yet.  Finance Companies Similarly, the average PE ratio of finance companies stands at 15.96 times. Two of the companies, PROFL and SFCL, have negative EPS and therefore doesn't have PE ratio.   Likewise, four finance companies' trading has been halted in NEPSE as they are undergoing mergers and acquisitions.   Hotels The Hotel sector reports a higher PE ratio than the above sectors. It has an industry average PE ratio of 35.81 times.   Hydropower Companies Out of the 32 listed Hydropower Companies, 2 haven't published Q2 while the rest have. Among the 30, nine companies have failed to report net profit till the second quarter of 2076/77.  The industry average PE ratio stands at 15.36 times as shown in the table below.  Life Insurance Companies The industry average PE ratio of life insurance companies stands at 76.04 times with average annualized EPS of Rs 13.30 only.   Among the 7 life insurance companies, LICN and NLIC have the highest price despite average EPS. This shows that the demand for shares of these companies is higher relative to others. Manufacturing and processing companies In the case of the manufacturing sector, the industry average may not be very accurate. BNL was last traded on Ashwin 23, 2076 and therefore has been included. Similarly, NLO and SRS haven't published their financial report in order to know about their EPS and finally, UNL is traded very infrequently. It was last traded on Falgun 06, 2076 at Rs 17,849.   The remaining three - BNT, HDL, and SHIVM - have reported an average PE ratio of 24.28 times as shown below.   Microfinance Companies The industry average PE ratio of the microfinance sector stands at 58.41 times. It includes 38 companies, while the other 12 companies have been excluded.   The table below shows the list of companies that are undergoing mergers and acquisitions and therefore aren't being traded in NEPSE.   Non-life Insurance Companies The fifteen listed non-life insurance companies report an industry average PE Ratio of 44.12 times. The table below shows the list of companies, their price as on Falgun 11, 2076, their adjusted annualized EPS and the PE ratio.   Others The other sector has a total of four companies under it. Among them, NFD (Nepal Film Development) is inactive. The remaining three make up an industry average PE ratio of 30.85 times with average EPS of Rs 39.98.  Trading In the case of the trading sector, both the companies i.e. BBC and STC haven't published their financial reports and therefore don't have the latest PE ratio.  Overall The table below shows the industry average annualized EPS and PE ratio of all sectors. The insurance companies and microfinance companies have the highest price in comparison to the earnings.  The secondary market of Nepal is striding upwards with the NEPSE index rising along with the share prices of many listed companies. This rise in prices has a significant impact on the price to earnings ratio of the companies relative to the ratio that was posted in the second quarter report of the companies. The article below shows the PE ratio of all listed companies categorized based on the sector. The prices are taken as of Falgun 11, 2076 (Yesterday). Similarly, the annualized EPS is taken from the second-quarter report and has been adjusted for any dividend that has been declared and approved by the company. Commercial Bank The industry average PE ratio of commercial banks stands at 14.86 times as of yesterday. The table below shows the PE ratio of each bank individually.   Development Bank The industry average PE ratio of the Development Bank Sector is higher than that of commercial banks at 16.80 times. The table below shows the list of development banks and their latest PE ratio:  The above table only includes 23 development banks as the majority are under the merger and acquisition process due to which their transaction has been halted in NEPSE. Likewise, KRBL is the only development bank that hasn't published its Q2 report yet.  Finance Companies Similarly, the average PE ratio of finance companies stands at 15.96 times. Two of the companies, PROFL and SFCL, have negative EPS and therefore doesn't have PE ratio.   Likewise, four finance companies' trading has been halted in NEPSE as they are undergoing mergers and acquisitions.   Hotels The Hotel sector reports a higher PE ratio than the above sectors. It has an industry average PE ratio of 35.81 times.   Hydropower Companies Out of the 32 listed Hydropower Companies, 2 haven't published Q2 while the rest have. Among the 30, nine companies have failed to report net profit till the second quarter of 2076/77.  The industry average PE ratio stands at 15.36 times as shown in the table below.  Life Insurance Companies The industry average PE ratio of life insurance companies stands at 76.04 times with average annualized EPS of Rs 13.30 only.   Among the 7 life insurance companies, LICN and NLIC have the highest price despite average EPS. This shows that the demand for shares of these companies is higher relative to others. Manufacturing and processing companies In the case of the manufacturing sector, the industry average may not be very accurate. BNL was last traded on Ashwin 23, 2076 and therefore has been included. Similarly, NLO and SRS haven't published their financial report in order to know about their EPS and finally, UNL is traded very infrequently. It was last traded on Falgun 06, 2076 at Rs 17,849.   The remaining three - BNT, HDL, and SHIVM - have reported an average PE ratio of 24.28 times as shown below.   Microfinance Companies The industry average PE ratio of the microfinance sector stands at 58.41 times. It includes 38 companies, while the other 12 companies have been excluded.   The table below shows the list of companies that are undergoing mergers and acquisitions and therefore aren't being traded in NEPSE.   Non-life Insurance Companies The fifteen listed non-life insurance companies report an industry average PE Ratio of 44.12 times. The table below shows the list of companies, their price as on Falgun 11, 2076, their adjusted annualized EPS and the PE ratio.   Others The other sector has a total of four companies under it. Among them, NFD (Nepal Film Development) is inactive. The remaining three make up an industry average PE ratio of 30.85 times with average EPS of Rs 39.98.  Trading In the case of the trading sector, both the companies i.e. BBC and STC haven't published their financial reports and therefore don't have the latest PE ratio.  Overall The table below shows the industry average annualized EPS and PE ratio of all sectors. The insurance companies and microfinance companies have the highest price in comparison to the earnings.  The secondary market of Nepal is striding upwards with the NEPSE index rising along with the share prices of many listed companies. This rise in prices has a significant impact on the price to earnings ratio of the companies relative to the ratio that was posted in the second quarter report of the companies. The article below shows the PE ratio of all listed companies categorized based on the sector. The prices are taken as of Falgun 11, 2076 (Yesterday). Similarly, the annualized EPS is taken from the second-quarter report and has been adjusted for any dividend that has been declared and approved by the company. Commercial Bank The industry average PE ratio of commercial banks stands at 14.86 times as of yesterday. The table below shows the PE ratio of each bank individually.   Development Bank The industry average PE ratio of the Development Bank Sector is higher than that of commercial banks at 16.80 times. The table below shows the list of development banks and their latest PE ratio:  The above table only includes 23 development banks as the majority are under the merger and acquisition process due to which their transaction has been halted in NEPSE. Likewise, KRBL is the only development bank that hasn't published its Q2 report yet.  Finance Companies Similarly, the average PE ratio of finance companies stands at 15.96 times. Two of the companies, PROFL and SFCL, have negative EPS and therefore doesn't have PE ratio.   Likewise, four finance companies' trading has been halted in NEPSE as they are undergoing mergers and acquisitions.   Hotels The Hotel sector reports a higher PE ratio than the above sectors. It has an industry average PE ratio of 35.81 times.   Hydropower Companies Out of the 32 listed Hydropower Companies, 2 haven't published Q2 while the rest have. Among the 30, nine companies have failed to report net profit till the second quarter of 2076/77.  The industry average PE ratio stands at 15.36 times as shown in the table below.  Life Insurance Companies The industry average PE ratio of life insurance companies stands at 76.04 times with average annualized EPS of Rs 13.30 only.   Among the 7 life insurance companies, LICN and NLIC have the highest price despite average EPS. This shows that the demand for shares of these companies is higher relative to others. Manufacturing and processing companies In the case of the manufacturing sector, the industry average may not be very accurate. BNL was last traded on Ashwin 23, 2076 and therefore has been included. Similarly, NLO and SRS haven't published their financial report in order to know about their EPS and finally, UNL is traded very infrequently. It was last traded on Falgun 06, 2076 at Rs 17,849.   The remaining three - BNT, HDL, and SHIVM - have reported an average PE ratio of 24.28 times as shown below.   Microfinance Companies The industry average PE ratio of the microfinance sector stands at 58.41 times. It includes 38 companies, while the other 12 companies have been excluded.   The table below shows the list of companies that are undergoing mergers and acquisitions and therefore aren't being traded in NEPSE.   Non-life Insurance Companies The fifteen listed non-life insurance companies report an industry average PE Ratio of 44.12 times. The table below shows the list of companies, their price as on Falgun 11, 2076, their adjusted annualized EPS and the PE ratio.   Others The other sector has a total of four companies under it. Among them, NFD (Nepal Film Development) is inactive. The remaining three make up an industry average PE ratio of 30.85 times with average EPS of Rs 39.98.  Trading In the case of the trading sector, both the companies i.e. BBC and STC haven't published their financial reports and therefore don't have the latest PE ratio.  Overall The table below shows the industry average annualized EPS and PE ratio of all sectors. The insurance companies and microfinance companies have the highest price in comparison to the earnings.  "
2020-02-20,Nabil Bank and Bhaktapur Chamber of Commerce sign MOU; bank commits to provide all sort of banking services for development of commerce and industries,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-bhaktapur-chamber-of-commerce-sign-mou-bank-commits-to-provide-all-sort-of-banking-services-for-development-of-commerce-and-industries,"Nabil Bank Ltd. & BCCI have jointly conducted an interaction program at BCCI Building, Byasi, Bhaktapur  on 18 February, 2020. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO, Nabil Bank and Mr. Pradip Shrestha, President, BCCI signed an agreement on the said program. With signing of this agreement, Nabil Bank has committed to support for fostering the development of Trade, Service and Industrial service in Nepal thereby providing various gamut of banking services including Loan to Small and Medium Enterprises (SME), Micro Enterprises and Mid Corporate business houses. During this ceremony, Chief Executive Officer of the Bank said “We see a lot of potential in further developing our nation’s trade & industrial sector this being the backbone of Nepalese economy. The bank will be supportive to institutions engaged in Trade, Service & Industrial sector in Bhaktapur. Nabil Bank is privileged to have signed an MOU with BCCI to work together to provide the need financial services and facilities for their growth.”  President of BCCI said, “We are happy to announce Nabil Bank as the partner bank for improving overall economic activities in Bhaktapur District”.   Nabil Bank is providing its services through a wide domestic network of 114 branches, 166 ATMs, more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe. The bank believes in moving “Together Ahead” with all its stakeholders.     Nabil Bank Ltd. & BCCI have jointly conducted an interaction program at BCCI Building, Byasi, Bhaktapur  on 18 February, 2020. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO, Nabil Bank and Mr. Pradip Shrestha, President, BCCI signed an agreement on the said program. With signing of this agreement, Nabil Bank has committed to support for fostering the development of Trade, Service and Industrial service in Nepal thereby providing various gamut of banking services including Loan to Small and Medium Enterprises (SME), Micro Enterprises and Mid Corporate business houses. During this ceremony, Chief Executive Officer of the Bank said “We see a lot of potential in further developing our nation’s trade & industrial sector this being the backbone of Nepalese economy. The bank will be supportive to institutions engaged in Trade, Service & Industrial sector in Bhaktapur. Nabil Bank is privileged to have signed an MOU with BCCI to work together to provide the need financial services and facilities for their growth.”  President of BCCI said, “We are happy to announce Nabil Bank as the partner bank for improving overall economic activities in Bhaktapur District”.   Nabil Bank is providing its services through a wide domestic network of 114 branches, 166 ATMs, more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe. The bank believes in moving “Together Ahead” with all its stakeholders.     Nabil Bank Ltd. & BCCI have jointly conducted an interaction program at BCCI Building, Byasi, Bhaktapur  on 18 February, 2020. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO, Nabil Bank and Mr. Pradip Shrestha, President, BCCI signed an agreement on the said program. With signing of this agreement, Nabil Bank has committed to support for fostering the development of Trade, Service and Industrial service in Nepal thereby providing various gamut of banking services including Loan to Small and Medium Enterprises (SME), Micro Enterprises and Mid Corporate business houses. During this ceremony, Chief Executive Officer of the Bank said “We see a lot of potential in further developing our nation’s trade & industrial sector this being the backbone of Nepalese economy. The bank will be supportive to institutions engaged in Trade, Service & Industrial sector in Bhaktapur. Nabil Bank is privileged to have signed an MOU with BCCI to work together to provide the need financial services and facilities for their growth.”  President of BCCI said, “We are happy to announce Nabil Bank as the partner bank for improving overall economic activities in Bhaktapur District”.   Nabil Bank is providing its services through a wide domestic network of 114 branches, 166 ATMs, more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe. The bank believes in moving “Together Ahead” with all its stakeholders.     "
2020-02-14,An exclusive comparative analysis of second quarter reports of commercial banks! The industry accumulates an average profit of 1.22 arba in the second quarter,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/an-exclusive-comparative-analysis-of-second-quarter-reports-of-commercial-banks-the-industry-accumulates-an-average-profit-of-122-arba-in-the-second-quarter,"The outcome of this quarter from this fiscal year has come out in the reports of commercial banks. Let us compare each of these commercial banks on the basis of second quarter reports of FY 2076/77. The following are the key elements necessary in analyzing the second quarter performance of commercial banks: As per the net profit of second quarter of 2076/77, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 2.20 arba. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the second highest net profit of Rs 2.13 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the net profit of Rs 2.04 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 31.62 crore.  The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.22 arba. 11 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks has net profit below the industry average. Paid up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with highest paid up capital are Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 18.98 arba capital and Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 14.22 arba paid up capital. Note: ADBL’s paid-up capital stands at Rs 14.44 arba which includes Rs 9.55 arba from ordinary shares and Rs 5.43 arba from irredeemable preference share.   With an industry average of Rs 6.89 arba, nine banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 6.89 arba in their reserve fund. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.38 arba. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has maintained second position with Rs 14.88 arba reserve and surplus fund. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 13.89 arba.   In an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.09 kharba as deposit. Only 12 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the second quarter of FY 2076/77, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.97 kharba (Growth in deposits is mainly due to merger with Janata Bank Limited). Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 1.94 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.78 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 47.75 arba only.  In today’s context, the concern of investor simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of loan portfolio equally matters. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) (Growth in deposits is mainly due to merger with Janata Bank Limited) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.90 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.51 kharba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.47 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 47.76 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 96.82 arba. 11 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 96.82 arba. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with highest net interest income is Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) with income of Rs 5.06 arba followed by NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with income of Rs 3.64 arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with income of Rs 3.54 arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 2.41 arba. 12 out of 28 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has also highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.68 arba.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.38 arba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the third highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.13 arba.   Major indicators: Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 49.07 per share. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second highest EPS of Rs 41.50 per share. Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 40.90 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 7.90 per share.   The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 25.22. 11 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 297.55 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) is in the second position with Rs 255.72. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q2 of FY 2076/77 i.e. Rs 254.24. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the least net worth of Rs 124.22 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 170.95 per share. 9 companies have net worth more than the industry average.   Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) has the least PE ratio of 9.68 times. It is followed by Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) with PE ratio of 10.05 times and finally Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has third least PE ratio of 10.16 times. 15 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 12.65 times. The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter end.   In a nutshell: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 2076/77:  Note: Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited has been excluded while labeling yellow color for the best ranking because Rastriya Banijya Bank has not been listed in NEPSE. Dear investors, please feel free to share your investment decision after the performance evaluation of key indicators of these commercial banks All the financial indicators are taken from Q2 published report of the banks. The outcome of this quarter from this fiscal year has come out in the reports of commercial banks. Let us compare each of these commercial banks on the basis of second quarter reports of FY 2076/77. The following are the key elements necessary in analyzing the second quarter performance of commercial banks: As per the net profit of second quarter of 2076/77, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 2.20 arba. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the second highest net profit of Rs 2.13 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the net profit of Rs 2.04 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 31.62 crore.  The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.22 arba. 11 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks has net profit below the industry average. Paid up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with highest paid up capital are Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 18.98 arba capital and Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 14.22 arba paid up capital. Note: ADBL’s paid-up capital stands at Rs 14.44 arba which includes Rs 9.55 arba from ordinary shares and Rs 5.43 arba from irredeemable preference share.   With an industry average of Rs 6.89 arba, nine banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 6.89 arba in their reserve fund. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.38 arba. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has maintained second position with Rs 14.88 arba reserve and surplus fund. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 13.89 arba.   In an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.09 kharba as deposit. Only 12 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the second quarter of FY 2076/77, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.97 kharba (Growth in deposits is mainly due to merger with Janata Bank Limited). Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 1.94 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.78 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 47.75 arba only.  In today’s context, the concern of investor simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of loan portfolio equally matters. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) (Growth in deposits is mainly due to merger with Janata Bank Limited) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.90 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.51 kharba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.47 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 47.76 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 96.82 arba. 11 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 96.82 arba. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with highest net interest income is Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) with income of Rs 5.06 arba followed by NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with income of Rs 3.64 arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with income of Rs 3.54 arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 2.41 arba. 12 out of 28 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has also highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.68 arba.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.38 arba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the third highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.13 arba.   Major indicators: Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 49.07 per share. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second highest EPS of Rs 41.50 per share. Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 40.90 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 7.90 per share.   The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 25.22. 11 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 297.55 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) is in the second position with Rs 255.72. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q2 of FY 2076/77 i.e. Rs 254.24. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the least net worth of Rs 124.22 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 170.95 per share. 9 companies have net worth more than the industry average.   Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) has the least PE ratio of 9.68 times. It is followed by Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) with PE ratio of 10.05 times and finally Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has third least PE ratio of 10.16 times. 15 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 12.65 times. The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter end.   In a nutshell: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 2076/77:  Note: Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited has been excluded while labeling yellow color for the best ranking because Rastriya Banijya Bank has not been listed in NEPSE. Dear investors, please feel free to share your investment decision after the performance evaluation of key indicators of these commercial banks All the financial indicators are taken from Q2 published report of the banks. The outcome of this quarter from this fiscal year has come out in the reports of commercial banks. Let us compare each of these commercial banks on the basis of second quarter reports of FY 2076/77. The following are the key elements necessary in analyzing the second quarter performance of commercial banks: As per the net profit of second quarter of 2076/77, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 2.20 arba. Similarly, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the second highest net profit of Rs 2.13 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the net profit of Rs 2.04 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 31.62 crore.  The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.22 arba. 11 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks has net profit below the industry average. Paid up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with highest paid up capital are Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 18.98 arba capital and Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 14.22 arba paid up capital. Note: ADBL’s paid-up capital stands at Rs 14.44 arba which includes Rs 9.55 arba from ordinary shares and Rs 5.43 arba from irredeemable preference share.   With an industry average of Rs 6.89 arba, nine banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 6.89 arba in their reserve fund. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.38 arba. Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has maintained second position with Rs 14.88 arba reserve and surplus fund. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 13.89 arba.   In an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.09 kharba as deposit. Only 12 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the second quarter of FY 2076/77, Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.97 kharba (Growth in deposits is mainly due to merger with Janata Bank Limited). Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 1.94 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.78 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 47.75 arba only.  In today’s context, the concern of investor simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of loan portfolio equally matters. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) (Growth in deposits is mainly due to merger with Janata Bank Limited) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.90 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.51 kharba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.47 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 47.76 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 96.82 arba. 11 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 96.82 arba. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with highest net interest income is Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) with income of Rs 5.06 arba followed by NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with income of Rs 3.64 arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with income of Rs 3.54 arba.  The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 2.41 arba. 12 out of 28 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has also highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.68 arba.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.38 arba. Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) has the third highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.13 arba.   Major indicators: Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 49.07 per share. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the second highest EPS of Rs 41.50 per share. Himalayan Bank Limited (HBL) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 40.90 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 7.90 per share.   The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 25.22. 11 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 297.55 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Agricultural Development Bank Limited (ADBL) is in the second position with Rs 255.72. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q2 of FY 2076/77 i.e. Rs 254.24. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the least net worth of Rs 124.22 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 170.95 per share. 9 companies have net worth more than the industry average.   Prime Commercial Bank Limited (PCBL) has the least PE ratio of 9.68 times. It is followed by Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) with PE ratio of 10.05 times and finally Nepal Bangladesh Bank Limited (NBB) has third least PE ratio of 10.16 times. 15 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 12.65 times. The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter end.   In a nutshell: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 2076/77:  Note: Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited has been excluded while labeling yellow color for the best ranking because Rastriya Banijya Bank has not been listed in NEPSE. Dear investors, please feel free to share your investment decision after the performance evaluation of key indicators of these commercial banks All the financial indicators are taken from Q2 published report of the banks. "
2020-02-11,Nabil Bank profit decline by 6.20% to Rs 2.04 arba in Q2 due to fall in net interest income and rise in personnel expenses,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-profit-decline-by-620-to-rs-204-arba-in-q2-due-to-fall-in-net-interest-income-and-rise-in-personnel-expenses,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its second quarter report for the FY 2076/77 today with a 6.20% fall in net profit. The bank’s profit has decreased from Rs 2.17 arba in the second quarter of the fiscal year 2075/76 to Rs 2.04 arba in the second quarter of the fiscal year 2076/77. The fall in net profit is mainly due to decline in net interest income and rise in staff expenses. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 1.45 arba as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments. The bank’s deposit from customers has increased by meager 0.84% (compared to immediate previous year ending) to Rs 1.64 kharba and loans and advances to customers increased by 10.90% (compared to immediate previous year ending) to Rs 1.41 kharba till the second quarter. The net interest income (core business income) of the bank has decreased by 4.42% to Rs 3.45 arba from Rs 3.61 arba of the corresponding quarter. The bank’s paid up capital stands at Rs 10.09 arba with Rs 13.80 arba as its reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan stands at 0.75%. In the second quarter, the annualized EPS of the bank stands at Rs 40.44. The net worth per share stands at Rs 236.68 and qtr end PE ratio stands at 18.05 times. Click here for Q2 report: Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its second quarter report for the FY 2076/77 today with a 6.20% fall in net profit. The bank’s profit has decreased from Rs 2.17 arba in the second quarter of the fiscal year 2075/76 to Rs 2.04 arba in the second quarter of the fiscal year 2076/77. The fall in net profit is mainly due to decline in net interest income and rise in staff expenses. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 1.45 arba as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments. The bank’s deposit from customers has increased by meager 0.84% (compared to immediate previous year ending) to Rs 1.64 kharba and loans and advances to customers increased by 10.90% (compared to immediate previous year ending) to Rs 1.41 kharba till the second quarter. The net interest income (core business income) of the bank has decreased by 4.42% to Rs 3.45 arba from Rs 3.61 arba of the corresponding quarter. The bank’s paid up capital stands at Rs 10.09 arba with Rs 13.80 arba as its reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan stands at 0.75%. In the second quarter, the annualized EPS of the bank stands at Rs 40.44. The net worth per share stands at Rs 236.68 and qtr end PE ratio stands at 18.05 times. Click here for Q2 report: Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published its second quarter report for the FY 2076/77 today with a 6.20% fall in net profit. The bank’s profit has decreased from Rs 2.17 arba in the second quarter of the fiscal year 2075/76 to Rs 2.04 arba in the second quarter of the fiscal year 2076/77. The fall in net profit is mainly due to decline in net interest income and rise in staff expenses. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 1.45 arba as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments. The bank’s deposit from customers has increased by meager 0.84% (compared to immediate previous year ending) to Rs 1.64 kharba and loans and advances to customers increased by 10.90% (compared to immediate previous year ending) to Rs 1.41 kharba till the second quarter. The net interest income (core business income) of the bank has decreased by 4.42% to Rs 3.45 arba from Rs 3.61 arba of the corresponding quarter. The bank’s paid up capital stands at Rs 10.09 arba with Rs 13.80 arba as its reserve and surplus. The Non-performing loan stands at 0.75%. In the second quarter, the annualized EPS of the bank stands at Rs 40.44. The net worth per share stands at Rs 236.68 and qtr end PE ratio stands at 18.05 times. Click here for Q2 report: "
2020-02-08,Nabil Bank signs MOU with Nepal Telecom; now use Nabil cards to top up NT mobile numbers under Electronic Payment Gateway service,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-signs-mou-with-nepal-telecom-now-use-nabil-cards-to-top-up-nt-mobile-numbers-under-electronic-payment-gateway-service,"Nabil Bank Limited and Nepal Telecom have signed a special agreement for Electronic Payment Gateway (EPG) Service on February 02, 2020. On the mark of 16th Anniversary of Nepal Telecom, in association with Nabil Bank, payment gateway service has been lunched. This service, at first stage, enables Nepal Telecom users to Recharge/Top-Up their GSM Postpaid and Prepaid mobile phones via Nepal Telecom Website using their Visa and MasterCard. This service will be made available for Nepal Telecom Mobile App in near future.  Bhanu Raj Shrestha, Chief Business Officer, Nepal Telecom and Binaya Kumar Regmi, Chief Marketing Officer, Nabil Bank signed the agreement during a special ceremony. Speaking about the launch, Chief Business Officer, Nepal Telecom said, ""The service was introduced acknowledging the demand of customers and need of electronic payment system platform whereby the customers from round the globe can Recharge and/or Top-up balance using their Visa and MasterCard believing that it delivers the ease to enjoy the services"". It shall be extended for the purchase of other services of Nepal Telecom. Likewise, on behalf of Nabil Bank, Chief Marketing Officer said that, ""This partnership will remain as milestone for the development of Electronic Payment System in Nepal and this has made us more responsible"". Nepal Telecom having an experience of over 100 years, launched its Mobile Service from 1998 A.D. and Nabil Bank has incepted its card service from 1990 A.D. From the service of both of these institutions that carries long heritage, millions of customers are benefiting. Established in the year 1984 with the objective of extending international standard modern banking services to various sectors of the society, Nabil Bank today serves through 112 branches, 160 ATM and more than 1500 remit agents all over Nepal. Nabil Bank Limited and Nepal Telecom have signed a special agreement for Electronic Payment Gateway (EPG) Service on February 02, 2020. On the mark of 16th Anniversary of Nepal Telecom, in association with Nabil Bank, payment gateway service has been lunched. This service, at first stage, enables Nepal Telecom users to Recharge/Top-Up their GSM Postpaid and Prepaid mobile phones via Nepal Telecom Website using their Visa and MasterCard. This service will be made available for Nepal Telecom Mobile App in near future.  Bhanu Raj Shrestha, Chief Business Officer, Nepal Telecom and Binaya Kumar Regmi, Chief Marketing Officer, Nabil Bank signed the agreement during a special ceremony. Speaking about the launch, Chief Business Officer, Nepal Telecom said, ""The service was introduced acknowledging the demand of customers and need of electronic payment system platform whereby the customers from round the globe can Recharge and/or Top-up balance using their Visa and MasterCard believing that it delivers the ease to enjoy the services"". It shall be extended for the purchase of other services of Nepal Telecom. Likewise, on behalf of Nabil Bank, Chief Marketing Officer said that, ""This partnership will remain as milestone for the development of Electronic Payment System in Nepal and this has made us more responsible"". Nepal Telecom having an experience of over 100 years, launched its Mobile Service from 1998 A.D. and Nabil Bank has incepted its card service from 1990 A.D. From the service of both of these institutions that carries long heritage, millions of customers are benefiting. Established in the year 1984 with the objective of extending international standard modern banking services to various sectors of the society, Nabil Bank today serves through 112 branches, 160 ATM and more than 1500 remit agents all over Nepal. Nabil Bank Limited and Nepal Telecom have signed a special agreement for Electronic Payment Gateway (EPG) Service on February 02, 2020. On the mark of 16th Anniversary of Nepal Telecom, in association with Nabil Bank, payment gateway service has been lunched. This service, at first stage, enables Nepal Telecom users to Recharge/Top-Up their GSM Postpaid and Prepaid mobile phones via Nepal Telecom Website using their Visa and MasterCard. This service will be made available for Nepal Telecom Mobile App in near future.  Bhanu Raj Shrestha, Chief Business Officer, Nepal Telecom and Binaya Kumar Regmi, Chief Marketing Officer, Nabil Bank signed the agreement during a special ceremony. Speaking about the launch, Chief Business Officer, Nepal Telecom said, ""The service was introduced acknowledging the demand of customers and need of electronic payment system platform whereby the customers from round the globe can Recharge and/or Top-up balance using their Visa and MasterCard believing that it delivers the ease to enjoy the services"". It shall be extended for the purchase of other services of Nepal Telecom. Likewise, on behalf of Nabil Bank, Chief Marketing Officer said that, ""This partnership will remain as milestone for the development of Electronic Payment System in Nepal and this has made us more responsible"". Nepal Telecom having an experience of over 100 years, launched its Mobile Service from 1998 A.D. and Nabil Bank has incepted its card service from 1990 A.D. From the service of both of these institutions that carries long heritage, millions of customers are benefiting. Established in the year 1984 with the objective of extending international standard modern banking services to various sectors of the society, Nabil Bank today serves through 112 branches, 160 ATM and more than 1500 remit agents all over Nepal. "
2020-02-06,How efficient have companies been in listing bonus shares of FY 75/76? See which companies are lagging behind,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/how-efficient-have-companies-been-in-listing-bonus-shares-of-fy-7576-see-which-companies-are-lagging-behind,"Companies that declare bonus share as dividends also have the obligation to work towards prompt listing of the shares as well. After declaration of dividend for a particular year, companies set the book closure date and AGM date. After the book closure date, the price of shares of the companies are adjusted relative to their respective bonuses. After the dividend is endorsed by the AGM, the companies move towards distribution of cash dividend and listing of bonus shares. However, some companies are lagging behind in this aspect. Most of companies which declared bonus dividend for FY 75/76 have not listed their shares for trade in the secondary market. Due to this, the shareholders of the company are at loss and the goodwill of the company is diminished. To have a clear picture, sector wise breakdown of companies to declare and list bonus shares have been prepared. The duration taken for listing has been calculated by ascertaining the number of days between the AGM dates and listing date. Companies whose listing date hasn’t been mentioned have not listed their bonus shares yet and the duration depicts the number of days that has elapsed since the AGM. For this purpose, yesterday date has been considered (February 5, 2020).         For companies that have listed their bonus shares, the range of duration has been between 50 days (Global IME Bank) and 109 days (Sanima Bank Limited). On the other hand, 104 days have elapsed since the AGM of Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) and still bonus shares have not been listed. However, many companies remain to conduct AGM or set the book closure date. Companies that declare bonus share as dividends also have the obligation to work towards prompt listing of the shares as well. After declaration of dividend for a particular year, companies set the book closure date and AGM date. After the book closure date, the price of shares of the companies are adjusted relative to their respective bonuses. After the dividend is endorsed by the AGM, the companies move towards distribution of cash dividend and listing of bonus shares. However, some companies are lagging behind in this aspect. Most of companies which declared bonus dividend for FY 75/76 have not listed their shares for trade in the secondary market. Due to this, the shareholders of the company are at loss and the goodwill of the company is diminished. To have a clear picture, sector wise breakdown of companies to declare and list bonus shares have been prepared. The duration taken for listing has been calculated by ascertaining the number of days between the AGM dates and listing date. Companies whose listing date hasn’t been mentioned have not listed their bonus shares yet and the duration depicts the number of days that has elapsed since the AGM. For this purpose, yesterday date has been considered (February 5, 2020).         For companies that have listed their bonus shares, the range of duration has been between 50 days (Global IME Bank) and 109 days (Sanima Bank Limited). On the other hand, 104 days have elapsed since the AGM of Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) and still bonus shares have not been listed. However, many companies remain to conduct AGM or set the book closure date. Companies that declare bonus share as dividends also have the obligation to work towards prompt listing of the shares as well. After declaration of dividend for a particular year, companies set the book closure date and AGM date. After the book closure date, the price of shares of the companies are adjusted relative to their respective bonuses. After the dividend is endorsed by the AGM, the companies move towards distribution of cash dividend and listing of bonus shares. However, some companies are lagging behind in this aspect. Most of companies which declared bonus dividend for FY 75/76 have not listed their shares for trade in the secondary market. Due to this, the shareholders of the company are at loss and the goodwill of the company is diminished. To have a clear picture, sector wise breakdown of companies to declare and list bonus shares have been prepared. The duration taken for listing has been calculated by ascertaining the number of days between the AGM dates and listing date. Companies whose listing date hasn’t been mentioned have not listed their bonus shares yet and the duration depicts the number of days that has elapsed since the AGM. For this purpose, yesterday date has been considered (February 5, 2020).         For companies that have listed their bonus shares, the range of duration has been between 50 days (Global IME Bank) and 109 days (Sanima Bank Limited). On the other hand, 104 days have elapsed since the AGM of Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL) and still bonus shares have not been listed. However, many companies remain to conduct AGM or set the book closure date. "
2020-02-03,Nabil Bank launches Nabil Sajilo Xpress Karja,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-nabil-sajilo-xpress-karja,"  Nabil Bank has launched SME Lending Product, “Nabil Sajilo Xpress Karja”, based on Credit Score Card Model with an aim to speed up the credit decision making process and provide risk based pricing with maximum interest rate of 10.50% through simplified and quicker processing. With an intention to introduce the product in seven provinces of the country, NSEK was launched from province 3, Kathmandu on 23rd December 2019. Nabil Bank has successfully launched Nabil Sajilo Express Karja at Province No. 5 in an event organized at Bharahawa today. During the event, Mr. Kul Prasad Neupane, President of Siddharthanagar Udhyog Banijya Sangh; Mr. Ujjwal Kasaju- Senior Vice President of Butwal Udhyog Banijya Sangh and Mr. Ram Chandra Pandey- Vice President of Tilottama Chamber of Commerce were also present. During the launch event, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank said, “NSEK is designed to cater the requirement of SME segment residing in different parts of the country. We understand and value the time and dream of business of our customer. That is why we aim to provide access to our offering from every corner of the country. Hence, we shall be the first choice of the SME clients by offering innovative products like NSEK, which will make the credit processing quicker, easier and simple.”  Nabil Bank and Sakchyam-Access to finance has been working together on enhancement of SME segments; an outcome of which was NABIL SAJILO KARJA (NSK) launched on March 7, 2019. With the success of the product, Nabil bank launches the new product, Nabil Sajilo Xpress Karja which is up gradation to existing NSK. This is the first time a bank in Nepal has used a credit scoring approach to make credit approval and pricing decision for SME clients, with competitive interest rate catering loan size from up to NPR 7.5 million. This product is designed to deliver a very quick decision on borrower’s credit application where the approval will be provided to the client within 35 hours of the submission of the application. The newly introduced product provides a smart package of free transaction alert services, free monthly bank e-statement delivery, free issuance of credit card to the key person of the business with an assured turnaround time of 35 hours (upon submission of complete required documents). Established in the year 1984 with the objective of extending international standard modern banking services to various sectors of the society, Nabil Bank today serves through 102 branches, 143 ATM and more than 1500 remit agents all over Nepal.   Nabil Bank has launched SME Lending Product, “Nabil Sajilo Xpress Karja”, based on Credit Score Card Model with an aim to speed up the credit decision making process and provide risk based pricing with maximum interest rate of 10.50% through simplified and quicker processing. With an intention to introduce the product in seven provinces of the country, NSEK was launched from province 3, Kathmandu on 23rd December 2019. Nabil Bank has successfully launched Nabil Sajilo Express Karja at Province No. 5 in an event organized at Bharahawa today. During the event, Mr. Kul Prasad Neupane, President of Siddharthanagar Udhyog Banijya Sangh; Mr. Ujjwal Kasaju- Senior Vice President of Butwal Udhyog Banijya Sangh and Mr. Ram Chandra Pandey- Vice President of Tilottama Chamber of Commerce were also present. During the launch event, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank said, “NSEK is designed to cater the requirement of SME segment residing in different parts of the country. We understand and value the time and dream of business of our customer. That is why we aim to provide access to our offering from every corner of the country. Hence, we shall be the first choice of the SME clients by offering innovative products like NSEK, which will make the credit processing quicker, easier and simple.”  Nabil Bank and Sakchyam-Access to finance has been working together on enhancement of SME segments; an outcome of which was NABIL SAJILO KARJA (NSK) launched on March 7, 2019. With the success of the product, Nabil bank launches the new product, Nabil Sajilo Xpress Karja which is up gradation to existing NSK. This is the first time a bank in Nepal has used a credit scoring approach to make credit approval and pricing decision for SME clients, with competitive interest rate catering loan size from up to NPR 7.5 million. This product is designed to deliver a very quick decision on borrower’s credit application where the approval will be provided to the client within 35 hours of the submission of the application. The newly introduced product provides a smart package of free transaction alert services, free monthly bank e-statement delivery, free issuance of credit card to the key person of the business with an assured turnaround time of 35 hours (upon submission of complete required documents). Established in the year 1984 with the objective of extending international standard modern banking services to various sectors of the society, Nabil Bank today serves through 102 branches, 143 ATM and more than 1500 remit agents all over Nepal.   Nabil Bank has launched SME Lending Product, “Nabil Sajilo Xpress Karja”, based on Credit Score Card Model with an aim to speed up the credit decision making process and provide risk based pricing with maximum interest rate of 10.50% through simplified and quicker processing. With an intention to introduce the product in seven provinces of the country, NSEK was launched from province 3, Kathmandu on 23rd December 2019. Nabil Bank has successfully launched Nabil Sajilo Express Karja at Province No. 5 in an event organized at Bharahawa today. During the event, Mr. Kul Prasad Neupane, President of Siddharthanagar Udhyog Banijya Sangh; Mr. Ujjwal Kasaju- Senior Vice President of Butwal Udhyog Banijya Sangh and Mr. Ram Chandra Pandey- Vice President of Tilottama Chamber of Commerce were also present. During the launch event, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank said, “NSEK is designed to cater the requirement of SME segment residing in different parts of the country. We understand and value the time and dream of business of our customer. That is why we aim to provide access to our offering from every corner of the country. Hence, we shall be the first choice of the SME clients by offering innovative products like NSEK, which will make the credit processing quicker, easier and simple.”  Nabil Bank and Sakchyam-Access to finance has been working together on enhancement of SME segments; an outcome of which was NABIL SAJILO KARJA (NSK) launched on March 7, 2019. With the success of the product, Nabil bank launches the new product, Nabil Sajilo Xpress Karja which is up gradation to existing NSK. This is the first time a bank in Nepal has used a credit scoring approach to make credit approval and pricing decision for SME clients, with competitive interest rate catering loan size from up to NPR 7.5 million. This product is designed to deliver a very quick decision on borrower’s credit application where the approval will be provided to the client within 35 hours of the submission of the application. The newly introduced product provides a smart package of free transaction alert services, free monthly bank e-statement delivery, free issuance of credit card to the key person of the business with an assured turnaround time of 35 hours (upon submission of complete required documents). Established in the year 1984 with the objective of extending international standard modern banking services to various sectors of the society, Nabil Bank today serves through 102 branches, 143 ATM and more than 1500 remit agents all over Nepal. "
2020-01-27,4 veterans receive Nabil Skill Hero Award; Skill Week 2020 comes to grand ending at Soltee Crown Plaza,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/4-veterans-receive-nabil-skill-hero-award-skill-week-2020-comes-to-grand-ending-at-soltee-crown-plaza,"Skill Week 2020 ended with a grand closing ceremony amidst a special gathering held at Soaltee Crown Plaza on Sunday, in the presence of prominent entrepreneurs, government diplomats, and 100+ aspirant enthusiasts. The event was successfully organized by Glocal Pvt Ltd with the aim to collaborate with Industry, Educators and Government to engage and promote the extensive skilling opportunities and showcasing emerging skills; ranging from business, services, technology to art and culture. The Skill week was organized with the aim to engage and promote the extensive skilling opportunities and showcasing emerging skills; ranging from business, services, technology to art and culture field; a program designed for youth with several training, interactions, workshops, competitions and exposure to skill development which held from January 20 to 26, 2020 at different locations in Kathmandu Valley. Hundreds of Youth witnessed first ever Skill Fest in the town to celebrate skills in a common platform. Skill Fest was organized on January 25, 2020; Saturday from 11 am- 6pm. This event was one of its kind which fosters skills to be the most important component in the competitive world. This event was an open platform for youth, i.e. the entries were free, to participate and know about skills, its importance and scope in the market. This event helped youth to explore, get engaged and educate in the various skills. The event had a lot of elements in it. Skill Fest comprised of series of Workshops, Competitions, Exhibitions, Food and Games, Music and Concerts along with Fun elements. It was basically exploring the world of Skills along with fun fiesta. The event showcased four distinct skill areas i.e. Art and Culture, Entrepreneurship, Tourism and Hospitality and Science and Technology. Therefore, four veterans were honored with the award of Nabil Skill Hero by Glocal Pvt. Ltd. For the first pillar i.e. Tourism and Hospitality, Ms. Ambika Shrestha, Chairperson at Dwarika’s Hotel was honored as Nabil Skill Hero as she has been an influential figure in terms of tourism, and making it possible for others to find work within this sector. Likewise, Ms. Mithila Sharma was honored, for her dedication in the field of Art and Culture, she has been recognized as a very versatile actress and a legend in Nepali movie industry. In the Entrepreneurship category, Mr. Nakim Uddin, Chairman of Team Quest, QFX was honored with the award for his pioneering contribution in the entertainment industry of Nepal and also for his inspiration to aspiring entrepreneurs who pursue to establish ventures that are based on their passion. And for the Science and Technology, Mr. Bishwas Dhakal, Founder of F1 Soft International Pvt. Ltd. was honored for his efforts to provide a digital ecosystem that connects people in Nepal to financial services in simple, affordable and secure ways.  The jury for Nabil Skill Hero by Glocal Pvt. Ltd. were Ms. Elke Wisch, Nepal Representative of UNICEF; Mr. Nabindra Raj Joshi, Former Minister for Industry, Government of Nepal; Mr. Upendra Mahato, Chairman, Mahato Group. Keeping up with the legacy of welcoming country’s most influential CEOs/entrepreneurs to inspire the enthusiastic entrepreneurial minds of the country, Glocal Pvt. Ltd. has successfully concluded the fifth edition of ‘CEO Unplugged 2020’ on the same day at Hotel Soaltee Crowne Plaza, Kathmandu. With the main theme of ‘Today Meets Tomorrow’, 8 reputed entrepreneurs, bureaucrats and diplomats of the country marked their presence as the speakers on this year’s CEO Unplugged. More than 100 aspirants participated in this highly anticipated event to network, learn, and share their notions with the prominent entrepreneurs of the country. There were two panel discussions, and each discussion had different exposure to Skill Ecosystem in Nepal. The first panel discussion of CEO Unplugged was held on the topic- “Foresighting and Forecasting the Supply of Skilled Workforce”. The panel had Prof. Ujjwal K. Chowdhury, Pro Vice Chancellor of Adamas University, India as the moderator. Arun Chaudhary, Chairman, CG Holdings; Abhishek Singh, Country Sales Manager, CocaCola Nepal; and Dr. Loknath Bhusal, Undersecretary, MOLESS were the panel members. The discussion was mainly about the evolution in the labor market at the heart of major changes in employment outlook and about increase in the demand for skilled labor in the competitive market. The second panel discussion was on the topic- “Reflection on the Demand of the Skilled Workforce.” The panelist were Dr. Kusmakar Bhatta, Director, CTEVT; Pawan Golyan, Chairman, Golyan Group; Surendra Saud, General Manager, Himalayan Java; and Anil Thaman, Chairman, Captain Outdoors. The panel discussion was moderated by Elke Wisch, Nepal Representative of UNICEF. The discussion was based on the ways in assessment of existing skill shortages and for forward-looking information on how the labor market and the demand for skills might change. Both the panel discussion was able to broaden different perspective on the Skill Ecosystem and its importance in the present time. The importance of skills is even more pronounced in a dynamic, globalized world as Skills are a critical asset for individuals, businesses and societies. Over the past four years, we had speakers from around 80 different organizations. CEO Unplugged is a platform to learn from renowned CEOs as they share their core knowledge, wisdom, strategy and tactics in a company lifecycle which helps to gain new perspective and discover emerging trends required to accelerate and sustain growth in Skills. The enthusiasts also got the chance of sharing some great conversation, resources, networks, and innovative ideas with the renowned personalities. The event was organized in association with Nabil Bank; Worldlink as Communication Partner; Strategic Partner: Embassy of India, UNICEF and ILO Nepal; Promoted By: Nepal Tourism Board; Soaltee Crowne Plaza as Official Hotel; Supported by Landmark Education, OFX and Honda. Skill Week 2020 ended with a grand closing ceremony amidst a special gathering held at Soaltee Crown Plaza on Sunday, in the presence of prominent entrepreneurs, government diplomats, and 100+ aspirant enthusiasts. The event was successfully organized by Glocal Pvt Ltd with the aim to collaborate with Industry, Educators and Government to engage and promote the extensive skilling opportunities and showcasing emerging skills; ranging from business, services, technology to art and culture. The Skill week was organized with the aim to engage and promote the extensive skilling opportunities and showcasing emerging skills; ranging from business, services, technology to art and culture field; a program designed for youth with several training, interactions, workshops, competitions and exposure to skill development which held from January 20 to 26, 2020 at different locations in Kathmandu Valley. Hundreds of Youth witnessed first ever Skill Fest in the town to celebrate skills in a common platform. Skill Fest was organized on January 25, 2020; Saturday from 11 am- 6pm. This event was one of its kind which fosters skills to be the most important component in the competitive world. This event was an open platform for youth, i.e. the entries were free, to participate and know about skills, its importance and scope in the market. This event helped youth to explore, get engaged and educate in the various skills. The event had a lot of elements in it. Skill Fest comprised of series of Workshops, Competitions, Exhibitions, Food and Games, Music and Concerts along with Fun elements. It was basically exploring the world of Skills along with fun fiesta. The event showcased four distinct skill areas i.e. Art and Culture, Entrepreneurship, Tourism and Hospitality and Science and Technology. Therefore, four veterans were honored with the award of Nabil Skill Hero by Glocal Pvt. Ltd. For the first pillar i.e. Tourism and Hospitality, Ms. Ambika Shrestha, Chairperson at Dwarika’s Hotel was honored as Nabil Skill Hero as she has been an influential figure in terms of tourism, and making it possible for others to find work within this sector. Likewise, Ms. Mithila Sharma was honored, for her dedication in the field of Art and Culture, she has been recognized as a very versatile actress and a legend in Nepali movie industry. In the Entrepreneurship category, Mr. Nakim Uddin, Chairman of Team Quest, QFX was honored with the award for his pioneering contribution in the entertainment industry of Nepal and also for his inspiration to aspiring entrepreneurs who pursue to establish ventures that are based on their passion. And for the Science and Technology, Mr. Bishwas Dhakal, Founder of F1 Soft International Pvt. Ltd. was honored for his efforts to provide a digital ecosystem that connects people in Nepal to financial services in simple, affordable and secure ways.  The jury for Nabil Skill Hero by Glocal Pvt. Ltd. were Ms. Elke Wisch, Nepal Representative of UNICEF; Mr. Nabindra Raj Joshi, Former Minister for Industry, Government of Nepal; Mr. Upendra Mahato, Chairman, Mahato Group. Keeping up with the legacy of welcoming country’s most influential CEOs/entrepreneurs to inspire the enthusiastic entrepreneurial minds of the country, Glocal Pvt. Ltd. has successfully concluded the fifth edition of ‘CEO Unplugged 2020’ on the same day at Hotel Soaltee Crowne Plaza, Kathmandu. With the main theme of ‘Today Meets Tomorrow’, 8 reputed entrepreneurs, bureaucrats and diplomats of the country marked their presence as the speakers on this year’s CEO Unplugged. More than 100 aspirants participated in this highly anticipated event to network, learn, and share their notions with the prominent entrepreneurs of the country. There were two panel discussions, and each discussion had different exposure to Skill Ecosystem in Nepal. The first panel discussion of CEO Unplugged was held on the topic- “Foresighting and Forecasting the Supply of Skilled Workforce”. The panel had Prof. Ujjwal K. Chowdhury, Pro Vice Chancellor of Adamas University, India as the moderator. Arun Chaudhary, Chairman, CG Holdings; Abhishek Singh, Country Sales Manager, CocaCola Nepal; and Dr. Loknath Bhusal, Undersecretary, MOLESS were the panel members. The discussion was mainly about the evolution in the labor market at the heart of major changes in employment outlook and about increase in the demand for skilled labor in the competitive market. The second panel discussion was on the topic- “Reflection on the Demand of the Skilled Workforce.” The panelist were Dr. Kusmakar Bhatta, Director, CTEVT; Pawan Golyan, Chairman, Golyan Group; Surendra Saud, General Manager, Himalayan Java; and Anil Thaman, Chairman, Captain Outdoors. The panel discussion was moderated by Elke Wisch, Nepal Representative of UNICEF. The discussion was based on the ways in assessment of existing skill shortages and for forward-looking information on how the labor market and the demand for skills might change. Both the panel discussion was able to broaden different perspective on the Skill Ecosystem and its importance in the present time. The importance of skills is even more pronounced in a dynamic, globalized world as Skills are a critical asset for individuals, businesses and societies. Over the past four years, we had speakers from around 80 different organizations. CEO Unplugged is a platform to learn from renowned CEOs as they share their core knowledge, wisdom, strategy and tactics in a company lifecycle which helps to gain new perspective and discover emerging trends required to accelerate and sustain growth in Skills. The enthusiasts also got the chance of sharing some great conversation, resources, networks, and innovative ideas with the renowned personalities. The event was organized in association with Nabil Bank; Worldlink as Communication Partner; Strategic Partner: Embassy of India, UNICEF and ILO Nepal; Promoted By: Nepal Tourism Board; Soaltee Crowne Plaza as Official Hotel; Supported by Landmark Education, OFX and Honda. Skill Week 2020 ended with a grand closing ceremony amidst a special gathering held at Soaltee Crown Plaza on Sunday, in the presence of prominent entrepreneurs, government diplomats, and 100+ aspirant enthusiasts. The event was successfully organized by Glocal Pvt Ltd with the aim to collaborate with Industry, Educators and Government to engage and promote the extensive skilling opportunities and showcasing emerging skills; ranging from business, services, technology to art and culture. The Skill week was organized with the aim to engage and promote the extensive skilling opportunities and showcasing emerging skills; ranging from business, services, technology to art and culture field; a program designed for youth with several training, interactions, workshops, competitions and exposure to skill development which held from January 20 to 26, 2020 at different locations in Kathmandu Valley. Hundreds of Youth witnessed first ever Skill Fest in the town to celebrate skills in a common platform. Skill Fest was organized on January 25, 2020; Saturday from 11 am- 6pm. This event was one of its kind which fosters skills to be the most important component in the competitive world. This event was an open platform for youth, i.e. the entries were free, to participate and know about skills, its importance and scope in the market. This event helped youth to explore, get engaged and educate in the various skills. The event had a lot of elements in it. Skill Fest comprised of series of Workshops, Competitions, Exhibitions, Food and Games, Music and Concerts along with Fun elements. It was basically exploring the world of Skills along with fun fiesta. The event showcased four distinct skill areas i.e. Art and Culture, Entrepreneurship, Tourism and Hospitality and Science and Technology. Therefore, four veterans were honored with the award of Nabil Skill Hero by Glocal Pvt. Ltd. For the first pillar i.e. Tourism and Hospitality, Ms. Ambika Shrestha, Chairperson at Dwarika’s Hotel was honored as Nabil Skill Hero as she has been an influential figure in terms of tourism, and making it possible for others to find work within this sector. Likewise, Ms. Mithila Sharma was honored, for her dedication in the field of Art and Culture, she has been recognized as a very versatile actress and a legend in Nepali movie industry. In the Entrepreneurship category, Mr. Nakim Uddin, Chairman of Team Quest, QFX was honored with the award for his pioneering contribution in the entertainment industry of Nepal and also for his inspiration to aspiring entrepreneurs who pursue to establish ventures that are based on their passion. And for the Science and Technology, Mr. Bishwas Dhakal, Founder of F1 Soft International Pvt. Ltd. was honored for his efforts to provide a digital ecosystem that connects people in Nepal to financial services in simple, affordable and secure ways.  The jury for Nabil Skill Hero by Glocal Pvt. Ltd. were Ms. Elke Wisch, Nepal Representative of UNICEF; Mr. Nabindra Raj Joshi, Former Minister for Industry, Government of Nepal; Mr. Upendra Mahato, Chairman, Mahato Group. Keeping up with the legacy of welcoming country’s most influential CEOs/entrepreneurs to inspire the enthusiastic entrepreneurial minds of the country, Glocal Pvt. Ltd. has successfully concluded the fifth edition of ‘CEO Unplugged 2020’ on the same day at Hotel Soaltee Crowne Plaza, Kathmandu. With the main theme of ‘Today Meets Tomorrow’, 8 reputed entrepreneurs, bureaucrats and diplomats of the country marked their presence as the speakers on this year’s CEO Unplugged. More than 100 aspirants participated in this highly anticipated event to network, learn, and share their notions with the prominent entrepreneurs of the country. There were two panel discussions, and each discussion had different exposure to Skill Ecosystem in Nepal. The first panel discussion of CEO Unplugged was held on the topic- “Foresighting and Forecasting the Supply of Skilled Workforce”. The panel had Prof. Ujjwal K. Chowdhury, Pro Vice Chancellor of Adamas University, India as the moderator. Arun Chaudhary, Chairman, CG Holdings; Abhishek Singh, Country Sales Manager, CocaCola Nepal; and Dr. Loknath Bhusal, Undersecretary, MOLESS were the panel members. The discussion was mainly about the evolution in the labor market at the heart of major changes in employment outlook and about increase in the demand for skilled labor in the competitive market. The second panel discussion was on the topic- “Reflection on the Demand of the Skilled Workforce.” The panelist were Dr. Kusmakar Bhatta, Director, CTEVT; Pawan Golyan, Chairman, Golyan Group; Surendra Saud, General Manager, Himalayan Java; and Anil Thaman, Chairman, Captain Outdoors. The panel discussion was moderated by Elke Wisch, Nepal Representative of UNICEF. The discussion was based on the ways in assessment of existing skill shortages and for forward-looking information on how the labor market and the demand for skills might change. Both the panel discussion was able to broaden different perspective on the Skill Ecosystem and its importance in the present time. The importance of skills is even more pronounced in a dynamic, globalized world as Skills are a critical asset for individuals, businesses and societies. Over the past four years, we had speakers from around 80 different organizations. CEO Unplugged is a platform to learn from renowned CEOs as they share their core knowledge, wisdom, strategy and tactics in a company lifecycle which helps to gain new perspective and discover emerging trends required to accelerate and sustain growth in Skills. The enthusiasts also got the chance of sharing some great conversation, resources, networks, and innovative ideas with the renowned personalities. The event was organized in association with Nabil Bank; Worldlink as Communication Partner; Strategic Partner: Embassy of India, UNICEF and ILO Nepal; Promoted By: Nepal Tourism Board; Soaltee Crowne Plaza as Official Hotel; Supported by Landmark Education, OFX and Honda. "
2020-01-26,What is the current average base rate of commercial banks? Look at the minimum and maximum interest rate charged on margin type loan,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/what-is-the-current-average-base-rate-of-commercial-banks-look-at-the-minimum-and-maximum-interest-rate-charged-on-margin-type-loan,"The recent uptrend in the market was attributed to the interest rate adjustments made by commercial banks. The average base rate of commercial banks during the same period last year was 9.88% and the average interest spread rate was 4.16%. However, the current scenario is somewhat different. Base rate, as defined by Nepal Rastra Bank, includes all cost of funds, cost of liquidity (CRR and SLR), and cost of operation. If a bank’s returns on government securities is lower than deposit collection rate, they can add the shortfall in the base rate. This is the minimum rate banks have to charge their customers. Banks usually add a premium to the base rate to derive the total rate of interest on a particular type of loan facility. This makes the loan facility provided by different banks vary in the interest rate charged. The latest base rate and spread rate of all commercial banks is as follows:  The average base rate of the industry stood at 9.50% and average spread rate stood at 5.07% as per the latest data available. With the lowest base rate (6.79%) and highest spread rate (5.96%), Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) leads in both aspects. Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) follows with base rate of 7.63% and Mega Bank (MEGA) with spread rate of 5.63%. The highest base rates are charged by Civil Bank (11.11%), NCCB (10.74%) and Kumari Bank (10.62%). Similarly, the banks with lowest spread rates were Kumari Bank (3.78%), Nepal Bank Limited (4.47%) and CZBIL (4.58%). The banks add a premium to the base rate to derive the interest on loan which differs from bank to bank. In case of margin lending, the range of premium added by each bank has been mentioned. The rate of premium for this type of loan can be anywhere between 0% and 8.50%. The average minimum margin lending rate stands at 10.20% while the average maximum margin lending rate stands at 14.77%. The recent uptrend in the market was attributed to the interest rate adjustments made by commercial banks. The average base rate of commercial banks during the same period last year was 9.88% and the average interest spread rate was 4.16%. However, the current scenario is somewhat different. Base rate, as defined by Nepal Rastra Bank, includes all cost of funds, cost of liquidity (CRR and SLR), and cost of operation. If a bank’s returns on government securities is lower than deposit collection rate, they can add the shortfall in the base rate. This is the minimum rate banks have to charge their customers. Banks usually add a premium to the base rate to derive the total rate of interest on a particular type of loan facility. This makes the loan facility provided by different banks vary in the interest rate charged. The latest base rate and spread rate of all commercial banks is as follows:  The average base rate of the industry stood at 9.50% and average spread rate stood at 5.07% as per the latest data available. With the lowest base rate (6.79%) and highest spread rate (5.96%), Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) leads in both aspects. Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) follows with base rate of 7.63% and Mega Bank (MEGA) with spread rate of 5.63%. The highest base rates are charged by Civil Bank (11.11%), NCCB (10.74%) and Kumari Bank (10.62%). Similarly, the banks with lowest spread rates were Kumari Bank (3.78%), Nepal Bank Limited (4.47%) and CZBIL (4.58%). The banks add a premium to the base rate to derive the interest on loan which differs from bank to bank. In case of margin lending, the range of premium added by each bank has been mentioned. The rate of premium for this type of loan can be anywhere between 0% and 8.50%. The average minimum margin lending rate stands at 10.20% while the average maximum margin lending rate stands at 14.77%. The recent uptrend in the market was attributed to the interest rate adjustments made by commercial banks. The average base rate of commercial banks during the same period last year was 9.88% and the average interest spread rate was 4.16%. However, the current scenario is somewhat different. Base rate, as defined by Nepal Rastra Bank, includes all cost of funds, cost of liquidity (CRR and SLR), and cost of operation. If a bank’s returns on government securities is lower than deposit collection rate, they can add the shortfall in the base rate. This is the minimum rate banks have to charge their customers. Banks usually add a premium to the base rate to derive the total rate of interest on a particular type of loan facility. This makes the loan facility provided by different banks vary in the interest rate charged. The latest base rate and spread rate of all commercial banks is as follows:  The average base rate of the industry stood at 9.50% and average spread rate stood at 5.07% as per the latest data available. With the lowest base rate (6.79%) and highest spread rate (5.96%), Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) leads in both aspects. Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) follows with base rate of 7.63% and Mega Bank (MEGA) with spread rate of 5.63%. The highest base rates are charged by Civil Bank (11.11%), NCCB (10.74%) and Kumari Bank (10.62%). Similarly, the banks with lowest spread rates were Kumari Bank (3.78%), Nepal Bank Limited (4.47%) and CZBIL (4.58%). The banks add a premium to the base rate to derive the interest on loan which differs from bank to bank. In case of margin lending, the range of premium added by each bank has been mentioned. The rate of premium for this type of loan can be anywhere between 0% and 8.50%. The average minimum margin lending rate stands at 10.20% while the average maximum margin lending rate stands at 14.77%. "
2020-01-21,SEBON approves debenture issue of Nabil Bank and ICFC Finance Limited; a total of 2.20 Million units to be issued,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/sebon-approves-debenture-issue-of-nabil-bank-and-icfc-finance-limited-a-total-of-220-million-units-to-be-issued,"Securities Board of Nepal (SEBON) has approved ""10% Nabil bank Debenture 2082"" proposed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and “12% ICFC Finance Debenture 2083” by ICFC Finance Limited (ICFC) Nabil Bank is issuing a total of 20 Lakh units of debentures at par value of Rs.1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs.2 Arba and will be providing 10% interest rate. The debenture will mature in 6 years i.e. in 2082. Out of the total issue, 8 Lakh units (40% of the issue) will be issued to the general public while the remaining 12 Lakh units (60% of the issue) will be privately placed. Laxmi Capital Market Limited has been appointed as the issue manager. Similarly, ICFC Finance Limited is issuing a total of 2 Lakh units of debentures at par value of Rs.1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs.20 Crore and will provide 12% interest. The debentures will mature in 7 years i.e. 2083. 80,000 units (40% of the issue) is for the general public while 120,000 units (60% of the issue) will be privately placed. Global IME Capital Limited has been appointed as the issue manager. Securities Board of Nepal (SEBON) has approved ""10% Nabil bank Debenture 2082"" proposed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and “12% ICFC Finance Debenture 2083” by ICFC Finance Limited (ICFC) Nabil Bank is issuing a total of 20 Lakh units of debentures at par value of Rs.1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs.2 Arba and will be providing 10% interest rate. The debenture will mature in 6 years i.e. in 2082. Out of the total issue, 8 Lakh units (40% of the issue) will be issued to the general public while the remaining 12 Lakh units (60% of the issue) will be privately placed. Laxmi Capital Market Limited has been appointed as the issue manager. Similarly, ICFC Finance Limited is issuing a total of 2 Lakh units of debentures at par value of Rs.1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs.20 Crore and will provide 12% interest. The debentures will mature in 7 years i.e. 2083. 80,000 units (40% of the issue) is for the general public while 120,000 units (60% of the issue) will be privately placed. Global IME Capital Limited has been appointed as the issue manager. Securities Board of Nepal (SEBON) has approved ""10% Nabil bank Debenture 2082"" proposed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) and “12% ICFC Finance Debenture 2083” by ICFC Finance Limited (ICFC) Nabil Bank is issuing a total of 20 Lakh units of debentures at par value of Rs.1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs.2 Arba and will be providing 10% interest rate. The debenture will mature in 6 years i.e. in 2082. Out of the total issue, 8 Lakh units (40% of the issue) will be issued to the general public while the remaining 12 Lakh units (60% of the issue) will be privately placed. Laxmi Capital Market Limited has been appointed as the issue manager. Similarly, ICFC Finance Limited is issuing a total of 2 Lakh units of debentures at par value of Rs.1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs.20 Crore and will provide 12% interest. The debentures will mature in 7 years i.e. 2083. 80,000 units (40% of the issue) is for the general public while 120,000 units (60% of the issue) will be privately placed. Global IME Capital Limited has been appointed as the issue manager. "
2020-01-15,Nabil Bank tries to catch up with other commercial banks in terms of geographical reach; grows with 23 more branches taking their count to 102 branches,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-tries-to-catch-up-with-other-commercial-banks-in-terms-of-geographical-reach-grows-with-23-more-branches-taking-their-count-to-102-branches,"Nabil Bank has brought into operation its 23 more branches at different parts of the nation. The bank has expanded its services at Inaruwa, Biratchowk, Duhabi, Hile, Urlabari, and Gaighat of Province I, at Golbazar, Siraha, Chandranighapur in Province II, at Kamalvinayak, Hattigauda, Kapan, Gajuri, Banepa, Panauti and Parsa of Province III, at Gaidakot, Daldale and Kawaswoti of Province IV, and at Chandrauta, Bardaghat and Manigram of Province V.   The bank currently has 102 branches, 143 ATM booths, and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents under its network, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has brought into operation its 23 more branches at different parts of the nation. The bank has expanded its services at Inaruwa, Biratchowk, Duhabi, Hile, Urlabari, and Gaighat of Province I, at Golbazar, Siraha, Chandranighapur in Province II, at Kamalvinayak, Hattigauda, Kapan, Gajuri, Banepa, Panauti and Parsa of Province III, at Gaidakot, Daldale and Kawaswoti of Province IV, and at Chandrauta, Bardaghat and Manigram of Province V.   The bank currently has 102 branches, 143 ATM booths, and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents under its network, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has brought into operation its 23 more branches at different parts of the nation. The bank has expanded its services at Inaruwa, Biratchowk, Duhabi, Hile, Urlabari, and Gaighat of Province I, at Golbazar, Siraha, Chandranighapur in Province II, at Kamalvinayak, Hattigauda, Kapan, Gajuri, Banepa, Panauti and Parsa of Province III, at Gaidakot, Daldale and Kawaswoti of Province IV, and at Chandrauta, Bardaghat and Manigram of Province V.   The bank currently has 102 branches, 143 ATM booths, and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents under its network, as per the media statement. "
2020-01-14,How has the recent uptrend affected the performance of companies who adjusted dividend? Did you recover your dividend amount?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/how-has-the-recent-uptrend-affected-the-performance-of-companies-who-adjusted-dividend-did-you-recover-your-dividend-amount,"As the market has been rallying aggressively in the upward direction for the past few days, the stock prices of some companies have grown in a way that their dividend adjusted price is almost in the rage of their book closure price. This reflects that the investors have somewhat recovered their dividend amount due to value appreciation and increased holdings. To find out the absolute profit for the investors, the latest closing price of the stocks have been adjusted with the dividend amount and compared with the book closure price. This will show the profit after dividend adjustment. Further, the duration from the book closure date has also been mentioned to give a clear idea about the degree of gain/loss. Trading suspended companies, companies that have not declared dividend or whose book closure has not elapsed have not been considered. Commercial Banks  Development Banks  Finance Companies  Hotels  Hydropower Companies  Manufacturing and Processing  Microfinance Companies  Others  None of the companies from Life Insurance sector have declared dividend for FY 75/76 while none of the Non-Life Insurance companies’ and Trading companies’ book closure dates have elapsed due to which they have not been mentioned. As the market has been rallying aggressively in the upward direction for the past few days, the stock prices of some companies have grown in a way that their dividend adjusted price is almost in the rage of their book closure price. This reflects that the investors have somewhat recovered their dividend amount due to value appreciation and increased holdings. To find out the absolute profit for the investors, the latest closing price of the stocks have been adjusted with the dividend amount and compared with the book closure price. This will show the profit after dividend adjustment. Further, the duration from the book closure date has also been mentioned to give a clear idea about the degree of gain/loss. Trading suspended companies, companies that have not declared dividend or whose book closure has not elapsed have not been considered. Commercial Banks  Development Banks  Finance Companies  Hotels  Hydropower Companies  Manufacturing and Processing  Microfinance Companies  Others  None of the companies from Life Insurance sector have declared dividend for FY 75/76 while none of the Non-Life Insurance companies’ and Trading companies’ book closure dates have elapsed due to which they have not been mentioned. As the market has been rallying aggressively in the upward direction for the past few days, the stock prices of some companies have grown in a way that their dividend adjusted price is almost in the rage of their book closure price. This reflects that the investors have somewhat recovered their dividend amount due to value appreciation and increased holdings. To find out the absolute profit for the investors, the latest closing price of the stocks have been adjusted with the dividend amount and compared with the book closure price. This will show the profit after dividend adjustment. Further, the duration from the book closure date has also been mentioned to give a clear idea about the degree of gain/loss. Trading suspended companies, companies that have not declared dividend or whose book closure has not elapsed have not been considered. Commercial Banks  Development Banks  Finance Companies  Hotels  Hydropower Companies  Manufacturing and Processing  Microfinance Companies  Others  None of the companies from Life Insurance sector have declared dividend for FY 75/76 while none of the Non-Life Insurance companies’ and Trading companies’ book closure dates have elapsed due to which they have not been mentioned. "
2020-01-14,Nabil Bank gives continuity to its insurance program against chronic illness and accidental death of account holders; provides insurance claim of Rs 2.01 crore to 86 account holders,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-gives-continuity-to-its-insurance-program-against-chronic-illness-and-accidental-death-of-account-holders-provides-insurance-claim-of-rs-201-crore-to-86-account-holders,"Nabil Bank has completed one year of launching its insurance program for the account holders in an association with METLife Insurance. Under the scheme, the bank has been offering Rs 3 lakh worth of insurance against chronic illness wile Rs 75 in case of death of the account holder. The bank has so far handed over the claim of Rs 2.01 crore to 86 account holders within a year of being launched. The bank has been providing health insurance claim of Rs 3 lakh for its account holders in case they go through the health challenges like Major Cancers, Stroke, First Heart Attack, Serious Coronary Artery Disease, Heart Valve Surgery, Primary Pulmonary Hypertension, End Stage Lung Disease, End Stage Liver Failure, Fulminant Hepatitis, Kidney Failure, Coma, Aplastic Anaemia, Major Organ/Bone Marrow Transplantation. To be eligible for this scheme, customers need to have minimum daily balance of Rs 25K, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has completed one year of launching its insurance program for the account holders in an association with METLife Insurance. Under the scheme, the bank has been offering Rs 3 lakh worth of insurance against chronic illness wile Rs 75 in case of death of the account holder. The bank has so far handed over the claim of Rs 2.01 crore to 86 account holders within a year of being launched. The bank has been providing health insurance claim of Rs 3 lakh for its account holders in case they go through the health challenges like Major Cancers, Stroke, First Heart Attack, Serious Coronary Artery Disease, Heart Valve Surgery, Primary Pulmonary Hypertension, End Stage Lung Disease, End Stage Liver Failure, Fulminant Hepatitis, Kidney Failure, Coma, Aplastic Anaemia, Major Organ/Bone Marrow Transplantation. To be eligible for this scheme, customers need to have minimum daily balance of Rs 25K, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has completed one year of launching its insurance program for the account holders in an association with METLife Insurance. Under the scheme, the bank has been offering Rs 3 lakh worth of insurance against chronic illness wile Rs 75 in case of death of the account holder. The bank has so far handed over the claim of Rs 2.01 crore to 86 account holders within a year of being launched. The bank has been providing health insurance claim of Rs 3 lakh for its account holders in case they go through the health challenges like Major Cancers, Stroke, First Heart Attack, Serious Coronary Artery Disease, Heart Valve Surgery, Primary Pulmonary Hypertension, End Stage Lung Disease, End Stage Liver Failure, Fulminant Hepatitis, Kidney Failure, Coma, Aplastic Anaemia, Major Organ/Bone Marrow Transplantation. To be eligible for this scheme, customers need to have minimum daily balance of Rs 25K, as per the media statement. "
2020-01-09,Nabil Bank convenes its 35th AGM; clears way for 34 % dividend and felicitates people involved in foiling recent massive banking loot,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-convenes-its-35th-agm-clears-way-for-34-dividend-and-felicitates-people-involved-in-foiling-recent-massive-banking-loot,"Nabil Bank has convened its 35th AGM on Poush 22, 2076 under the leadership of bank’s chairman Mr. Sambu Prasad Poudyal. Endorsing all the financial reports, the AGM has also endorsed the proposal to provide 12% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend to the shareholders. The bank had earned net profit of Rs 4.24 arba that is the highest among the private banks in Nepal, reported EPS of Rs 50.57, increased the size of its balance sheet to Rs 2.01 kharba, had operational profit of Rs 6.03 arba during the previous fiscal year. After capitalization of the proposed bonus shares, the paid up capital of the bank will scale up to rs 10.09 arba. The AGM also saw the felicitation of bank’s employees, security guards, Durbarmarg post of Metropolitan Police for their active participation in preventing the major banking loot in Nepal some months ago, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has convened its 35th AGM on Poush 22, 2076 under the leadership of bank’s chairman Mr. Sambu Prasad Poudyal. Endorsing all the financial reports, the AGM has also endorsed the proposal to provide 12% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend to the shareholders. The bank had earned net profit of Rs 4.24 arba that is the highest among the private banks in Nepal, reported EPS of Rs 50.57, increased the size of its balance sheet to Rs 2.01 kharba, had operational profit of Rs 6.03 arba during the previous fiscal year. After capitalization of the proposed bonus shares, the paid up capital of the bank will scale up to rs 10.09 arba. The AGM also saw the felicitation of bank’s employees, security guards, Durbarmarg post of Metropolitan Police for their active participation in preventing the major banking loot in Nepal some months ago, as per the media statement. Nabil Bank has convened its 35th AGM on Poush 22, 2076 under the leadership of bank’s chairman Mr. Sambu Prasad Poudyal. Endorsing all the financial reports, the AGM has also endorsed the proposal to provide 12% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend to the shareholders. The bank had earned net profit of Rs 4.24 arba that is the highest among the private banks in Nepal, reported EPS of Rs 50.57, increased the size of its balance sheet to Rs 2.01 kharba, had operational profit of Rs 6.03 arba during the previous fiscal year. After capitalization of the proposed bonus shares, the paid up capital of the bank will scale up to rs 10.09 arba. The AGM also saw the felicitation of bank’s employees, security guards, Durbarmarg post of Metropolitan Police for their active participation in preventing the major banking loot in Nepal some months ago, as per the media statement. "
2020-01-05,Banks and NCHL jointly initiate Rs 100 Campaign; get cash incentive for activating your ConnectIPS account now,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/banks-and-nchl-jointly-initiate-rs-100-campaign-get-cash-incentive-for-activating-your-connectips-account-now,"Nepal Clearing House Ltd. (NCHL) has started a joint promotion campaign with the leading banks of Nepal to promote bank account based digital transactions through connectIPS e-Payment System. The bank customers who link and verify their bank account with connectIPS will be incentivized with balance deposit Rs.100 by the respective banks during the campaign period. The incentive is currently available for the customers of Laxmi Bank, Citizens Bank International, Nabil Bank and Nepal Bank, who will also assist the customers to create user and link bank accounts. The customers will be able to do the payment transactions directly from their bank accounts using connectIPS platform, corresponding to which such transactions can be initiated from its mobile App, web (connectips.com) or some of the bank’s own mobile banking. connectIPS e-payment system is a standardized single payments platform for online payments which includes online fund transfer, payment processor (gateway) and creditor/biller payments. Some of the services that are on-boarded on the platform by the member banks including Government tax payment, Loksewa application fee, Office of Company Registrar payments, CIT loan repayment, Social Security Fund payment, credit card bill payments, mobile wallet top-up, NEPSE online trading, broker & capital market related payments, travel agency payments, school/colleges, insurance payments and similar. The campaign has been rolled out to support the industry initiatives to promoting bank account based digital transactions jointly with the banks and financial institutions. Nepal Clearing House Ltd. (NCHL) has started a joint promotion campaign with the leading banks of Nepal to promote bank account based digital transactions through connectIPS e-Payment System. The bank customers who link and verify their bank account with connectIPS will be incentivized with balance deposit Rs.100 by the respective banks during the campaign period. The incentive is currently available for the customers of Laxmi Bank, Citizens Bank International, Nabil Bank and Nepal Bank, who will also assist the customers to create user and link bank accounts. The customers will be able to do the payment transactions directly from their bank accounts using connectIPS platform, corresponding to which such transactions can be initiated from its mobile App, web (connectips.com) or some of the bank’s own mobile banking. connectIPS e-payment system is a standardized single payments platform for online payments which includes online fund transfer, payment processor (gateway) and creditor/biller payments. Some of the services that are on-boarded on the platform by the member banks including Government tax payment, Loksewa application fee, Office of Company Registrar payments, CIT loan repayment, Social Security Fund payment, credit card bill payments, mobile wallet top-up, NEPSE online trading, broker & capital market related payments, travel agency payments, school/colleges, insurance payments and similar. The campaign has been rolled out to support the industry initiatives to promoting bank account based digital transactions jointly with the banks and financial institutions. Nepal Clearing House Ltd. (NCHL) has started a joint promotion campaign with the leading banks of Nepal to promote bank account based digital transactions through connectIPS e-Payment System. The bank customers who link and verify their bank account with connectIPS will be incentivized with balance deposit Rs.100 by the respective banks during the campaign period. The incentive is currently available for the customers of Laxmi Bank, Citizens Bank International, Nabil Bank and Nepal Bank, who will also assist the customers to create user and link bank accounts. The customers will be able to do the payment transactions directly from their bank accounts using connectIPS platform, corresponding to which such transactions can be initiated from its mobile App, web (connectips.com) or some of the bank’s own mobile banking. connectIPS e-payment system is a standardized single payments platform for online payments which includes online fund transfer, payment processor (gateway) and creditor/biller payments. Some of the services that are on-boarded on the platform by the member banks including Government tax payment, Loksewa application fee, Office of Company Registrar payments, CIT loan repayment, Social Security Fund payment, credit card bill payments, mobile wallet top-up, NEPSE online trading, broker & capital market related payments, travel agency payments, school/colleges, insurance payments and similar. The campaign has been rolled out to support the industry initiatives to promoting bank account based digital transactions jointly with the banks and financial institutions. "
2020-01-05,Nabil Bank signs MoU with ICICI Bank,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-signs-mou-with-icici-bank,"Nabil Bank and ICICI Bank, India’s leading private sector bank, have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that sets out a framework for co-operation and strengthen the existing relationship between the two institutions across various businesses like trade, remittances and treasury. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO, Nabil Bank and Ms. Ranju Sigtia, Head - International Financial Institution Group, ICICI Bank signed the MoU at Nabil Bank’s headquarters in Kathmandu.  The banks will work in close co-ordination with each other to support the trade and treasury needs of their customers seamlessly. The initiative will enable both the banks to effectively leverage the combined strengths of Nabil Bank’s deep market access in Nepal and ICICI Bank’s expertise in banking and the distribution franchise across India and in key global markets. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah said, “We are proud to partner with ICICI Bank. This MoU creates a platform for sharing knowledge and deepening network connectivity between Nabil Bank and ICICI Bank - especially for our customers doing business with India.” Speaking on the partnership, Ms. Ranju Sigtia said, “Nepal has a strong and growing, trade and investment corridor with India. ICICI Bank has been actively working with partner banks to connect customers in Nepal with India and other overseas locations, where ICICI Bank has its presence. In line with our continuing commitment to furthering our participation in the growing India-Nepal economic corridor, we are delighted to sign this MoU with Nabil Bank”.   Nabil Bank is the leading private sector commercial bank. It has 97 branches and 143 ATMs spread across the country. Nabil Bank is a pioneer in introducing many innovative products and marketing concepts in Nepalese banking industry and represents a milestone in the banking history of Nepal as it started an era of modern banking with customer satisfaction measured as a focal objective while doing business. ICICI Bank services its large customer base through multi-channel delivery network of 5,228 branches and 15,159 ATMs, internet banking, mobile banking and phone banking in India as at September 30, 2019.  About ICICI Bank: ICICI Bank Ltd (BSE: ICICIBANK, NSE: ICICIBANK and NYSE:IBN) is a leading private sector bank in India. The Bank’s consolidated total assets stood at ₹12,88,190 crore at September 30, 2019. ICICI Bank's subsidiaries include India's leading private sector insurance, asset management and securities brokerage companies, and among the country’s largest private equity firms. It is present across 15 countries, including India. Nabil Bank and ICICI Bank, India’s leading private sector bank, have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that sets out a framework for co-operation and strengthen the existing relationship between the two institutions across various businesses like trade, remittances and treasury. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO, Nabil Bank and Ms. Ranju Sigtia, Head - International Financial Institution Group, ICICI Bank signed the MoU at Nabil Bank’s headquarters in Kathmandu.  The banks will work in close co-ordination with each other to support the trade and treasury needs of their customers seamlessly. The initiative will enable both the banks to effectively leverage the combined strengths of Nabil Bank’s deep market access in Nepal and ICICI Bank’s expertise in banking and the distribution franchise across India and in key global markets. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah said, “We are proud to partner with ICICI Bank. This MoU creates a platform for sharing knowledge and deepening network connectivity between Nabil Bank and ICICI Bank - especially for our customers doing business with India.” Speaking on the partnership, Ms. Ranju Sigtia said, “Nepal has a strong and growing, trade and investment corridor with India. ICICI Bank has been actively working with partner banks to connect customers in Nepal with India and other overseas locations, where ICICI Bank has its presence. In line with our continuing commitment to furthering our participation in the growing India-Nepal economic corridor, we are delighted to sign this MoU with Nabil Bank”.   Nabil Bank is the leading private sector commercial bank. It has 97 branches and 143 ATMs spread across the country. Nabil Bank is a pioneer in introducing many innovative products and marketing concepts in Nepalese banking industry and represents a milestone in the banking history of Nepal as it started an era of modern banking with customer satisfaction measured as a focal objective while doing business. ICICI Bank services its large customer base through multi-channel delivery network of 5,228 branches and 15,159 ATMs, internet banking, mobile banking and phone banking in India as at September 30, 2019.  About ICICI Bank: ICICI Bank Ltd (BSE: ICICIBANK, NSE: ICICIBANK and NYSE:IBN) is a leading private sector bank in India. The Bank’s consolidated total assets stood at ₹12,88,190 crore at September 30, 2019. ICICI Bank's subsidiaries include India's leading private sector insurance, asset management and securities brokerage companies, and among the country’s largest private equity firms. It is present across 15 countries, including India. Nabil Bank and ICICI Bank, India’s leading private sector bank, have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that sets out a framework for co-operation and strengthen the existing relationship between the two institutions across various businesses like trade, remittances and treasury. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO, Nabil Bank and Ms. Ranju Sigtia, Head - International Financial Institution Group, ICICI Bank signed the MoU at Nabil Bank’s headquarters in Kathmandu.  The banks will work in close co-ordination with each other to support the trade and treasury needs of their customers seamlessly. The initiative will enable both the banks to effectively leverage the combined strengths of Nabil Bank’s deep market access in Nepal and ICICI Bank’s expertise in banking and the distribution franchise across India and in key global markets. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah said, “We are proud to partner with ICICI Bank. This MoU creates a platform for sharing knowledge and deepening network connectivity between Nabil Bank and ICICI Bank - especially for our customers doing business with India.” Speaking on the partnership, Ms. Ranju Sigtia said, “Nepal has a strong and growing, trade and investment corridor with India. ICICI Bank has been actively working with partner banks to connect customers in Nepal with India and other overseas locations, where ICICI Bank has its presence. In line with our continuing commitment to furthering our participation in the growing India-Nepal economic corridor, we are delighted to sign this MoU with Nabil Bank”.   Nabil Bank is the leading private sector commercial bank. It has 97 branches and 143 ATMs spread across the country. Nabil Bank is a pioneer in introducing many innovative products and marketing concepts in Nepalese banking industry and represents a milestone in the banking history of Nepal as it started an era of modern banking with customer satisfaction measured as a focal objective while doing business. ICICI Bank services its large customer base through multi-channel delivery network of 5,228 branches and 15,159 ATMs, internet banking, mobile banking and phone banking in India as at September 30, 2019.  About ICICI Bank: ICICI Bank Ltd (BSE: ICICIBANK, NSE: ICICIBANK and NYSE:IBN) is a leading private sector bank in India. The Bank’s consolidated total assets stood at ₹12,88,190 crore at September 30, 2019. ICICI Bank's subsidiaries include India's leading private sector insurance, asset management and securities brokerage companies, and among the country’s largest private equity firms. It is present across 15 countries, including India. "
2020-01-05,"Are Your Worried of Your Investments Giving You a Negative Return Since NEPSE Index Had Closed at 1,888 in 2016?",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/are-your-worried-of-your-investments-giving-you-a-negative-return-since-nepse-index-had-closed-at-1888-in-2016,
2019-12-23,"Last day to grab shares of Nabil Bank to be eligible for 34% dividend; AGM on Poush 22,2076",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/last-day-to-grab-shares-of-nabil-bank-to-be-eligible-for-34-dividend-agm-on-poush-222076,"Nabil Bank (NABIL) will be convening its 35th Annual General Meeting (AGM) on Poush 22, 2076 at Nepal Pragya Pratisthan, Kamaladi, Kathmandu from 10 AM onwards. The Board Meeting held on Mangsir 30, 2076 has decided on the following agendas to be discussed in the meeting: The Book closure date is on Poush 08, 2076. Therefore, shareholders maintained on the books on poush 07, 2076 will be eligible to participate in the AGM and claim dividend. Nabil Bank (NABIL) will be convening its 35th Annual General Meeting (AGM) on Poush 22, 2076 at Nepal Pragya Pratisthan, Kamaladi, Kathmandu from 10 AM onwards. The Board Meeting held on Mangsir 30, 2076 has decided on the following agendas to be discussed in the meeting: The Book closure date is on Poush 08, 2076. Therefore, shareholders maintained on the books on poush 07, 2076 will be eligible to participate in the AGM and claim dividend. Nabil Bank (NABIL) will be convening its 35th Annual General Meeting (AGM) on Poush 22, 2076 at Nepal Pragya Pratisthan, Kamaladi, Kathmandu from 10 AM onwards. The Board Meeting held on Mangsir 30, 2076 has decided on the following agendas to be discussed in the meeting: The Book closure date is on Poush 08, 2076. Therefore, shareholders maintained on the books on poush 07, 2076 will be eligible to participate in the AGM and claim dividend. "
2019-12-17,Nabil Bank to convene AGM on poush 22; Book closure for 34% dividend on Poush 08,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-convene-agm-on-poush-22-book-closure-for-34-dividend-on-poush-08,"Nabil Bank (NABIL) will be convening its 35th Annual General Meeting (AGM) on Poush 22, 2076 at Nepal Pragya Pratisthan, Kamaladi, Kathmandu from 10 AM onwards. The Board Meeting held on Mangsir 30, 2076 has decided on the following agendas to be discussed in the meeting: The Book closure date is on Poush 08, 2076. Therefore, shareholders maintained on the books on poush 07, 2076 will be eligible to participate in the AGM and claim dividend. Announcement Nabil Bank proposes 34% dividend for its shareholders for 2075/76; 12% bonus and 22% cash dividend Nabil Bank (NABIL) will be convening its 35th Annual General Meeting (AGM) on Poush 22, 2076 at Nepal Pragya Pratisthan, Kamaladi, Kathmandu from 10 AM onwards. The Board Meeting held on Mangsir 30, 2076 has decided on the following agendas to be discussed in the meeting: The Book closure date is on Poush 08, 2076. Therefore, shareholders maintained on the books on poush 07, 2076 will be eligible to participate in the AGM and claim dividend. Announcement Nabil Bank proposes 34% dividend for its shareholders for 2075/76; 12% bonus and 22% cash dividend Nabil Bank (NABIL) will be convening its 35th Annual General Meeting (AGM) on Poush 22, 2076 at Nepal Pragya Pratisthan, Kamaladi, Kathmandu from 10 AM onwards. The Board Meeting held on Mangsir 30, 2076 has decided on the following agendas to be discussed in the meeting: The Book closure date is on Poush 08, 2076. Therefore, shareholders maintained on the books on poush 07, 2076 will be eligible to participate in the AGM and claim dividend. Announcement Nabil Bank proposes 34% dividend for its shareholders for 2075/76; 12% bonus and 22% cash dividend "
2019-12-08,Nepal Academy of Science & Technology announced NABIL Science & Technology Awards 2076 to four researchers/scientists,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nepal-academy-of-science-technology-announced-nabil-science-technology-awards-2076-to-four-researchersscientists,"Nepal Academy of Science & Technology (NAST) announced Nabil Science & Technology Awards 2076 to four researchers/scientists. The awardees were felicitated by Hon’ble Minister for Education, Science and Technology and Pro Chancellor of NAST Giriraj Mani Pokhrel in an award distribution ceremony organized at NAST on December 6, 2019. The four best research contributors namely Prof Dr Parashuram Mishra, Prof Dr Bidya Shrestha, Dr Shyam Prakash Dumre and Dr Prativa Pandey were awarded “Nabil Science & Technology Award” with a purse of Rs 125,000 each for their contributions in different areas under the field of science and technology. In a separate meeting with Nabil Science & Technology awardees, Bank’s Chairman Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal extended congratulations for their effective contribution in the field of Science & Technology and also thanked them for accepting Nabil Science & Technology award which is instituted by Nabil Bank. On the occasion, total 26 researchers/ scientists were honored by various prestigious awards of NAST. The award selection process was fully handled by a team of renowned scientists and academicians under the aegis of NAST. Nepal Academy of Science & Technology (NAST) announced Nabil Science & Technology Awards 2076 to four researchers/scientists. The awardees were felicitated by Hon’ble Minister for Education, Science and Technology and Pro Chancellor of NAST Giriraj Mani Pokhrel in an award distribution ceremony organized at NAST on December 6, 2019. The four best research contributors namely Prof Dr Parashuram Mishra, Prof Dr Bidya Shrestha, Dr Shyam Prakash Dumre and Dr Prativa Pandey were awarded “Nabil Science & Technology Award” with a purse of Rs 125,000 each for their contributions in different areas under the field of science and technology. In a separate meeting with Nabil Science & Technology awardees, Bank’s Chairman Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal extended congratulations for their effective contribution in the field of Science & Technology and also thanked them for accepting Nabil Science & Technology award which is instituted by Nabil Bank. On the occasion, total 26 researchers/ scientists were honored by various prestigious awards of NAST. The award selection process was fully handled by a team of renowned scientists and academicians under the aegis of NAST. Nepal Academy of Science & Technology (NAST) announced Nabil Science & Technology Awards 2076 to four researchers/scientists. The awardees were felicitated by Hon’ble Minister for Education, Science and Technology and Pro Chancellor of NAST Giriraj Mani Pokhrel in an award distribution ceremony organized at NAST on December 6, 2019. The four best research contributors namely Prof Dr Parashuram Mishra, Prof Dr Bidya Shrestha, Dr Shyam Prakash Dumre and Dr Prativa Pandey were awarded “Nabil Science & Technology Award” with a purse of Rs 125,000 each for their contributions in different areas under the field of science and technology. In a separate meeting with Nabil Science & Technology awardees, Bank’s Chairman Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal extended congratulations for their effective contribution in the field of Science & Technology and also thanked them for accepting Nabil Science & Technology award which is instituted by Nabil Bank. On the occasion, total 26 researchers/ scientists were honored by various prestigious awards of NAST. The award selection process was fully handled by a team of renowned scientists and academicians under the aegis of NAST. "
2019-12-05,Nabil Bank and Federation of Handicraft Association of Nepal sign agreement for development of Nepalese handicraft,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-federation-of-handicraft-association-of-nepal-sign-agreement-for-development-of-nepalese-handicraft,"Nabil Bank and Federation of Handicraft Association of Nepal (FHAN) have signed an agreement on the occasion of 17th Handicraft Trade Fair and 15th Craft Competition. Bank’s CEO Mr. Anil Keshary Shah and President of FHAN Mr. Surendra Bhai Shakya signed this agreement on the inauguration ceremony organized at the trade fair at Bhrikutikuti Mandap.  With the signing of this agreement, Nabil Bank has committed to be a supportive bank for the development of handicraft business sector in Nepal. During the signing ceremony, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief executive Officer of the bank said, “ We see a lot of potential in  further developing our nations handicraft sector, and the first step towards that is supporting the individuals and institutions involved in the handicraft business. Nabil Bank is privileged to have signed an MoU with FHAN to work together to provide the needed financial facilities for their growth.” Mr. Surendra Bhai Shakya, President of FHAN said, “We are happy to announce Nabil Bank as Handicraft Friendly Bank of the year. We appreciate the private sector initiation on development of the handicraft business of Nepal.” Nabil bank is providing its services through a wide domestic network of 92 branches, 142 ATMs, more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe. The Bank believes in moving “Together Ahead” with all its stakeholders.   Nabil Bank and Federation of Handicraft Association of Nepal (FHAN) have signed an agreement on the occasion of 17th Handicraft Trade Fair and 15th Craft Competition. Bank’s CEO Mr. Anil Keshary Shah and President of FHAN Mr. Surendra Bhai Shakya signed this agreement on the inauguration ceremony organized at the trade fair at Bhrikutikuti Mandap.  With the signing of this agreement, Nabil Bank has committed to be a supportive bank for the development of handicraft business sector in Nepal. During the signing ceremony, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief executive Officer of the bank said, “ We see a lot of potential in  further developing our nations handicraft sector, and the first step towards that is supporting the individuals and institutions involved in the handicraft business. Nabil Bank is privileged to have signed an MoU with FHAN to work together to provide the needed financial facilities for their growth.” Mr. Surendra Bhai Shakya, President of FHAN said, “We are happy to announce Nabil Bank as Handicraft Friendly Bank of the year. We appreciate the private sector initiation on development of the handicraft business of Nepal.” Nabil bank is providing its services through a wide domestic network of 92 branches, 142 ATMs, more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe. The Bank believes in moving “Together Ahead” with all its stakeholders.   Nabil Bank and Federation of Handicraft Association of Nepal (FHAN) have signed an agreement on the occasion of 17th Handicraft Trade Fair and 15th Craft Competition. Bank’s CEO Mr. Anil Keshary Shah and President of FHAN Mr. Surendra Bhai Shakya signed this agreement on the inauguration ceremony organized at the trade fair at Bhrikutikuti Mandap.  With the signing of this agreement, Nabil Bank has committed to be a supportive bank for the development of handicraft business sector in Nepal. During the signing ceremony, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief executive Officer of the bank said, “ We see a lot of potential in  further developing our nations handicraft sector, and the first step towards that is supporting the individuals and institutions involved in the handicraft business. Nabil Bank is privileged to have signed an MoU with FHAN to work together to provide the needed financial facilities for their growth.” Mr. Surendra Bhai Shakya, President of FHAN said, “We are happy to announce Nabil Bank as Handicraft Friendly Bank of the year. We appreciate the private sector initiation on development of the handicraft business of Nepal.” Nabil bank is providing its services through a wide domestic network of 92 branches, 142 ATMs, more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe. The Bank believes in moving “Together Ahead” with all its stakeholders.   "
2019-12-03,Nabil Bank launches 24*7 Nabil Customer Care Center; state-of-the-art technology installed to offer high quality service to valued customers,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-247-nabil-customer-care-center-state-of-the-art-technology-installed-to-offer-high-quality-service-to-valued-customers,"Nabil Bank has announce the launch of “Nabil Customer Care Center” a contact center of the Bank aimed for delivering service excellence to its customers. Nabil Customer Care Center shall provide 24×7 service to its customers 365 days a year. This shall be the Bank’s new delivery channel that will provide single touch point to its customer. The contact center of the Bank shall be equipped with state-of-the-art technology to offer high quality service and convenience to customers.   Customer care center will handle both inbound and outbound calls and act as a pan Nepal customer Care center. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of the Bank said “This new delivery channel of the Bank is a step forward for delivering service excellence to our customer. Delivering superior service is the prime focus area of Nabil Bank and Customer Care Center will enhance the Bank’s ability to provide 24×7 service support and improve customer experience.""  Nabil Bank is the leading private sector commercial bank. It has 92 branches and 142 ATMs spread across the country. Nabil Bank is a pioneer in introducing many innovative products and marketing concepts in Nepalese banking industry and represents a milestone in the banking history of Nepal as it started an era of modern banking with customer satisfaction measured as a focal objective while doing business. Nabil Bank has announce the launch of “Nabil Customer Care Center” a contact center of the Bank aimed for delivering service excellence to its customers. Nabil Customer Care Center shall provide 24×7 service to its customers 365 days a year. This shall be the Bank’s new delivery channel that will provide single touch point to its customer. The contact center of the Bank shall be equipped with state-of-the-art technology to offer high quality service and convenience to customers.   Customer care center will handle both inbound and outbound calls and act as a pan Nepal customer Care center. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of the Bank said “This new delivery channel of the Bank is a step forward for delivering service excellence to our customer. Delivering superior service is the prime focus area of Nabil Bank and Customer Care Center will enhance the Bank’s ability to provide 24×7 service support and improve customer experience.""  Nabil Bank is the leading private sector commercial bank. It has 92 branches and 142 ATMs spread across the country. Nabil Bank is a pioneer in introducing many innovative products and marketing concepts in Nepalese banking industry and represents a milestone in the banking history of Nepal as it started an era of modern banking with customer satisfaction measured as a focal objective while doing business. Nabil Bank has announce the launch of “Nabil Customer Care Center” a contact center of the Bank aimed for delivering service excellence to its customers. Nabil Customer Care Center shall provide 24×7 service to its customers 365 days a year. This shall be the Bank’s new delivery channel that will provide single touch point to its customer. The contact center of the Bank shall be equipped with state-of-the-art technology to offer high quality service and convenience to customers.   Customer care center will handle both inbound and outbound calls and act as a pan Nepal customer Care center. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of the Bank said “This new delivery channel of the Bank is a step forward for delivering service excellence to our customer. Delivering superior service is the prime focus area of Nabil Bank and Customer Care Center will enhance the Bank’s ability to provide 24×7 service support and improve customer experience.""  Nabil Bank is the leading private sector commercial bank. It has 92 branches and 142 ATMs spread across the country. Nabil Bank is a pioneer in introducing many innovative products and marketing concepts in Nepalese banking industry and represents a milestone in the banking history of Nepal as it started an era of modern banking with customer satisfaction measured as a focal objective while doing business. "
2019-12-02,How relevant is annualizing EPS based on first quarter reports of commercial banks? Analysis of expected against actual EPS and deviation,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/how-relevant-is-annualizing-eps-based-on-first-quarter-reports-of-commercial-banks-analysis-of-expected-against-actual-eps-and-deviation,"The Earnings per Share (EPS) published by the companies in their quarterly reports is one of the most accurate financial indicator of the companies’ current and expected performance. The figure gives a general idea to the investors regarding how the company is expected to perform. Usually, the EPS figure is annualized, meaning, the EPS for that quarter is taken as minimum expected return for the remaining quarters and accordingly the expected EPS for the whole year is calculated. For example: if the quarter end EPS for the first quarter stands at Rs.5, then the annualized EPS will be Rs.20 (Rs.5*4 quarters) based on the reports of the first quarter. However, annualizing EPS may not always be relevant due to the seasonal nature of some industries which results in varying performance in different quarters. To check the relevancy of annualizing EPS, the annualized EPS based on first quarter reports of commercial banks have been compared with the actual year end EPS. The financials of the previous year i.e. FY 2075/76 have been considered. Commercial Bank sector has been chosen for this analysis due to minimal effect of seasonal nature in the industry. *Amount in Thousands (unless mentioned otherwise) Annualized EPS based on the reports of the first quarter have been termed as expected EPS. To off-set the effects of bonus, the net profit of the first quarter was annualized and EPS was calculated, considering the paid up capital at the end of FY 75/76. This figure was compared with the actual EPS reported at the end of the year. As per the analysis, only eight out of 27 listed commercial banks posted year end EPS lower than the expected EPS, while the remaining banks managed to report a higher year end EPS. The highest difference was seen in the EPS of ADBL which increased by Rs.26.31 from the expected EPS. Similarly, NBL reported a year end EPS of Rs.26.62 against the expected EPS of Rs.37.26. On an average, the expected EPS was Rs.23.36 while the actual EPS was Rs.24.99. From the data, it can be inferred that most commercial banks performed better than what was initially expected and managed to report a positive deviation while some banks couldn’t perform as expected due to various reasons and reported a negative deviation. Other things remaining constant, considering history as data, a similar analysis can be done based on the first quarter reports of FY 76/77 to accurately calculate the expected year end EPS. The Earnings per Share (EPS) published by the companies in their quarterly reports is one of the most accurate financial indicator of the companies’ current and expected performance. The figure gives a general idea to the investors regarding how the company is expected to perform. Usually, the EPS figure is annualized, meaning, the EPS for that quarter is taken as minimum expected return for the remaining quarters and accordingly the expected EPS for the whole year is calculated. For example: if the quarter end EPS for the first quarter stands at Rs.5, then the annualized EPS will be Rs.20 (Rs.5*4 quarters) based on the reports of the first quarter. However, annualizing EPS may not always be relevant due to the seasonal nature of some industries which results in varying performance in different quarters. To check the relevancy of annualizing EPS, the annualized EPS based on first quarter reports of commercial banks have been compared with the actual year end EPS. The financials of the previous year i.e. FY 2075/76 have been considered. Commercial Bank sector has been chosen for this analysis due to minimal effect of seasonal nature in the industry. *Amount in Thousands (unless mentioned otherwise) Annualized EPS based on the reports of the first quarter have been termed as expected EPS. To off-set the effects of bonus, the net profit of the first quarter was annualized and EPS was calculated, considering the paid up capital at the end of FY 75/76. This figure was compared with the actual EPS reported at the end of the year. As per the analysis, only eight out of 27 listed commercial banks posted year end EPS lower than the expected EPS, while the remaining banks managed to report a higher year end EPS. The highest difference was seen in the EPS of ADBL which increased by Rs.26.31 from the expected EPS. Similarly, NBL reported a year end EPS of Rs.26.62 against the expected EPS of Rs.37.26. On an average, the expected EPS was Rs.23.36 while the actual EPS was Rs.24.99. From the data, it can be inferred that most commercial banks performed better than what was initially expected and managed to report a positive deviation while some banks couldn’t perform as expected due to various reasons and reported a negative deviation. Other things remaining constant, considering history as data, a similar analysis can be done based on the first quarter reports of FY 76/77 to accurately calculate the expected year end EPS. The Earnings per Share (EPS) published by the companies in their quarterly reports is one of the most accurate financial indicator of the companies’ current and expected performance. The figure gives a general idea to the investors regarding how the company is expected to perform. Usually, the EPS figure is annualized, meaning, the EPS for that quarter is taken as minimum expected return for the remaining quarters and accordingly the expected EPS for the whole year is calculated. For example: if the quarter end EPS for the first quarter stands at Rs.5, then the annualized EPS will be Rs.20 (Rs.5*4 quarters) based on the reports of the first quarter. However, annualizing EPS may not always be relevant due to the seasonal nature of some industries which results in varying performance in different quarters. To check the relevancy of annualizing EPS, the annualized EPS based on first quarter reports of commercial banks have been compared with the actual year end EPS. The financials of the previous year i.e. FY 2075/76 have been considered. Commercial Bank sector has been chosen for this analysis due to minimal effect of seasonal nature in the industry. *Amount in Thousands (unless mentioned otherwise) Annualized EPS based on the reports of the first quarter have been termed as expected EPS. To off-set the effects of bonus, the net profit of the first quarter was annualized and EPS was calculated, considering the paid up capital at the end of FY 75/76. This figure was compared with the actual EPS reported at the end of the year. As per the analysis, only eight out of 27 listed commercial banks posted year end EPS lower than the expected EPS, while the remaining banks managed to report a higher year end EPS. The highest difference was seen in the EPS of ADBL which increased by Rs.26.31 from the expected EPS. Similarly, NBL reported a year end EPS of Rs.26.62 against the expected EPS of Rs.37.26. On an average, the expected EPS was Rs.23.36 while the actual EPS was Rs.24.99. From the data, it can be inferred that most commercial banks performed better than what was initially expected and managed to report a positive deviation while some banks couldn’t perform as expected due to various reasons and reported a negative deviation. Other things remaining constant, considering history as data, a similar analysis can be done based on the first quarter reports of FY 76/77 to accurately calculate the expected year end EPS. "
2019-11-19,Comparative Analysis- Commercial banks have come out with their first quarter report of the new fiscal year! Are you planning to change your investment decision?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/comparative-analysis-commercial-banks-have-come-out-with-their-first-quarter-report-of-the-new-fiscal-year-are-you-planning-to-change-your-investment-decision,"A fresh start of a new fiscal year began few months ago. The outcome of this quarter from this fiscal year has come out in the reports of commercial banks. Let us compare each of these commercial banks on the basis of first quarter reports of FY 2076/77. The following are the key elements necessary in analyzing the first quarter performance of commercial banks: As per the net profit of first quarter of 2076/77, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 1.1275 arba. Similarly, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest net profit of Rs 1.1236 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the net profit of Rs 1.00 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 15.90 crore. The industry average net profit of the 28 commercial banks is Rs 57.77 crores. 14 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks has net profit below the industry average.    Paid up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with highest paid up capital are Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 12.87 arba capital, NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with Rs 11.53 arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 10.44 arba paid up capital.  With an industry average of Rs 6.9 arba, nine banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 46.99 arba in their reserve fund. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.60 arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained second position with Rs 15.82 arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 15.34 arba.   In an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.02 arba as deposit. Only 12 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the first quarter of FY 2076/77, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.87 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 1.79 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.72 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 42.92 arba only.  In today’s context, the concern of investor simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of loan portfolio equally matters. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.54 kharba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.43 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.35 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 44.19 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 90.07 arba. 13 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 90.07 arba. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with highest net interest income is Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) with income of Rs 2.27 arba followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with income of Rs 1.92 arba and NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with income of Rs 1.84 arba. The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 1.20 arba. 12 out of 28 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the highest distributable profit worth Rs 1.30 arba followed by Nabil Bank limited (NABIL) with distributable profit worth Rs 74.23 crores and NMB Bank limited (NMB) worth Rs 53.62 crores.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has also highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.16 arba.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.12 arba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the third highest comprehensive income of Rs 97.82 crores.   Major indicators: Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 50.09 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest EPS of Rs 49.87 per share. NIC Asia Bank limited (NICA) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 41.56 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 7.94 per share.   The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 25.80. 11 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 299.81 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the second position with Rs 275.78. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q1 of FY 2076/77 i.e. Rs 270.20. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 121.29 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 176.16 per share. 9 companies have net worth more than the industry average.   Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least PE ratio of 8.74 times. It is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with PE ratio of 9.29 times and finally Prabhu Bank Limited (PRVU) has third least PE ratio of 9.37 times. 17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 12.97 times. The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter end.  In a nutshell: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 28 commercial banks as of the first quarter of FY 2076/77:    Note: Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited has been excluded while labeling yellow color for the best ranking because Rastriya Banijya Bank has not been listed in NEPSE. Dear investors, please feel free to share your investment decision after the performance evaluation of key indicators of these commercial banks. A fresh start of a new fiscal year began few months ago. The outcome of this quarter from this fiscal year has come out in the reports of commercial banks. Let us compare each of these commercial banks on the basis of first quarter reports of FY 2076/77. The following are the key elements necessary in analyzing the first quarter performance of commercial banks: As per the net profit of first quarter of 2076/77, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 1.1275 arba. Similarly, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest net profit of Rs 1.1236 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the net profit of Rs 1.00 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 15.90 crore. The industry average net profit of the 28 commercial banks is Rs 57.77 crores. 14 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks has net profit below the industry average.    Paid up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with highest paid up capital are Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 12.87 arba capital, NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with Rs 11.53 arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 10.44 arba paid up capital.  With an industry average of Rs 6.9 arba, nine banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 46.99 arba in their reserve fund. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.60 arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained second position with Rs 15.82 arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 15.34 arba.   In an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.02 arba as deposit. Only 12 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the first quarter of FY 2076/77, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.87 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 1.79 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.72 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 42.92 arba only.  In today’s context, the concern of investor simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of loan portfolio equally matters. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.54 kharba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.43 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.35 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 44.19 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 90.07 arba. 13 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 90.07 arba. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with highest net interest income is Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) with income of Rs 2.27 arba followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with income of Rs 1.92 arba and NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with income of Rs 1.84 arba. The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 1.20 arba. 12 out of 28 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the highest distributable profit worth Rs 1.30 arba followed by Nabil Bank limited (NABIL) with distributable profit worth Rs 74.23 crores and NMB Bank limited (NMB) worth Rs 53.62 crores.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has also highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.16 arba.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.12 arba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the third highest comprehensive income of Rs 97.82 crores.   Major indicators: Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 50.09 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest EPS of Rs 49.87 per share. NIC Asia Bank limited (NICA) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 41.56 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 7.94 per share.   The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 25.80. 11 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 299.81 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the second position with Rs 275.78. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q1 of FY 2076/77 i.e. Rs 270.20. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 121.29 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 176.16 per share. 9 companies have net worth more than the industry average.   Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least PE ratio of 8.74 times. It is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with PE ratio of 9.29 times and finally Prabhu Bank Limited (PRVU) has third least PE ratio of 9.37 times. 17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 12.97 times. The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter end.  In a nutshell: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 28 commercial banks as of the first quarter of FY 2076/77:    Note: Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited has been excluded while labeling yellow color for the best ranking because Rastriya Banijya Bank has not been listed in NEPSE. Dear investors, please feel free to share your investment decision after the performance evaluation of key indicators of these commercial banks. A fresh start of a new fiscal year began few months ago. The outcome of this quarter from this fiscal year has come out in the reports of commercial banks. Let us compare each of these commercial banks on the basis of first quarter reports of FY 2076/77. The following are the key elements necessary in analyzing the first quarter performance of commercial banks: As per the net profit of first quarter of 2076/77, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 1.1275 arba. Similarly, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest net profit of Rs 1.1236 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the net profit of Rs 1.00 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 15.90 crore. The industry average net profit of the 28 commercial banks is Rs 57.77 crores. 14 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks has net profit below the industry average.    Paid up capital refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The bank with highest paid up capital are Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 12.87 arba capital, NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with Rs 11.53 arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 10.44 arba paid up capital.  With an industry average of Rs 6.9 arba, nine banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 46.99 arba in their reserve fund. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.60 arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained second position with Rs 15.82 arba reserve and surplus fund. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL)  is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 15.34 arba.   In an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 1.02 arba as deposit. Only 12 banks are above the average deposit collection. As of the first quarter of FY 2076/77, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.87 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 1.79 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.72 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 42.92 arba only.  In today’s context, the concern of investor simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of loan portfolio equally matters. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.54 kharba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.43 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.35 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 44.19 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 90.07 arba. 13 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 90.07 arba. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with highest net interest income is Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) with income of Rs 2.27 arba followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with income of Rs 1.92 arba and NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with income of Rs 1.84 arba. The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 1.20 arba. 12 out of 28 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the highest distributable profit worth Rs 1.30 arba followed by Nabil Bank limited (NABIL) with distributable profit worth Rs 74.23 crores and NMB Bank limited (NMB) worth Rs 53.62 crores.  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has also highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.16 arba.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second highest comprehensive income of Rs 1.12 arba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has the third highest comprehensive income of Rs 97.82 crores.   Major indicators: Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 50.09 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest EPS of Rs 49.87 per share. NIC Asia Bank limited (NICA) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 41.56 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 7.94 per share.   The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 25.80. 11 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 299.81 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the second position with Rs 275.78. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q1 of FY 2076/77 i.e. Rs 270.20. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 121.29 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 176.16 per share. 9 companies have net worth more than the industry average.   Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least PE ratio of 8.74 times. It is followed by NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) with PE ratio of 9.29 times and finally Prabhu Bank Limited (PRVU) has third least PE ratio of 9.37 times. 17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 12.97 times. The PE ratios are not the recent ratios rather the ratios for quarter end.  In a nutshell: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 28 commercial banks as of the first quarter of FY 2076/77:    Note: Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited has been excluded while labeling yellow color for the best ranking because Rastriya Banijya Bank has not been listed in NEPSE. Dear investors, please feel free to share your investment decision after the performance evaluation of key indicators of these commercial banks. "
2019-11-18,Nabil Bank Launches Heroes of Nepal series by Felicitating Nirmal Purja,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-heroes-of-nepal-series-by-felicitating-nirmal-purja,"Nabil Bank has launched its Heroes of Nepal series with the objective of recognizing and felicitating Nepalis who have achieved extraordinary feats. The purpose behind the Heroes of Nepal series is to highlight and learn from the life journeys of exceptional Nepalis, so as to draw inspiration from them for all Nepalis to strive to lead extraordinary lives. In an event organized in Rastriya Sabhagriha on Friday 15th November 2019, Nabil Bank initiated the Heroes of Nepal series by felicitating Mr. Nirmal Purja ‘Nims Dai’ for setting a world record of climbing the world’s 14 highest peaks within 7 months. At the event Nirmalji shared not only the adventures of his 14 historic summit ascents, but also the challenges of his journey through life. The event was attended by the Bank’s senior management team, media personalities and Nepali youth. In the event Mr. Purja delivered an inspiring address on his life journey and the hardships he faced along the way to make possible, ‘Project Possible’. While today everyone sees him as a world record holder, in the event Nirmalji let everyone see the human side of the man who has achieved a super human task. Following Mr. Purja’s presentation there was a panel discussion with Mr. Purja, Ms. Shrinkhala Khatiwada and Mr. Anil Shah to dive a little deeper into areas from which we all can draw inspiration. Nabil Bank felicitated Mr. Purja for his great accomplishment and awarded him with a sum of Rs. 7,00,000 (Rupees Seven lakhs) as a token of appreciation and an encouragement for him to continue pursuing his passion. Following which, Nabil Bank in collaboration with the Nepal Mountaineering Association, also committed to provide scholarships to 15 children from families of mountaineers who lost their lives while on expeditions in the Himalaya. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank said, “For us to truly build a Prosperous Nepal with Happy Nepalis, each son and daughter of Nepal has to believe, think and work like a Hero. The objective of the Nabil Bank Heroes of Nepal series is to provide a platform for us to show case the strengths and achievements of true Nepali Heroes, so that we can all learn from them and become Heroes of Nepal ourselves.” Nabil Bank plans to give continuation to this series in the days ahead by bringing in young people who have done something great in their lives so that we can all gain inspirations from their life journeys. Nabil Bank has launched its Heroes of Nepal series with the objective of recognizing and felicitating Nepalis who have achieved extraordinary feats. The purpose behind the Heroes of Nepal series is to highlight and learn from the life journeys of exceptional Nepalis, so as to draw inspiration from them for all Nepalis to strive to lead extraordinary lives. In an event organized in Rastriya Sabhagriha on Friday 15th November 2019, Nabil Bank initiated the Heroes of Nepal series by felicitating Mr. Nirmal Purja ‘Nims Dai’ for setting a world record of climbing the world’s 14 highest peaks within 7 months. At the event Nirmalji shared not only the adventures of his 14 historic summit ascents, but also the challenges of his journey through life. The event was attended by the Bank’s senior management team, media personalities and Nepali youth. In the event Mr. Purja delivered an inspiring address on his life journey and the hardships he faced along the way to make possible, ‘Project Possible’. While today everyone sees him as a world record holder, in the event Nirmalji let everyone see the human side of the man who has achieved a super human task. Following Mr. Purja’s presentation there was a panel discussion with Mr. Purja, Ms. Shrinkhala Khatiwada and Mr. Anil Shah to dive a little deeper into areas from which we all can draw inspiration. Nabil Bank felicitated Mr. Purja for his great accomplishment and awarded him with a sum of Rs. 7,00,000 (Rupees Seven lakhs) as a token of appreciation and an encouragement for him to continue pursuing his passion. Following which, Nabil Bank in collaboration with the Nepal Mountaineering Association, also committed to provide scholarships to 15 children from families of mountaineers who lost their lives while on expeditions in the Himalaya. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank said, “For us to truly build a Prosperous Nepal with Happy Nepalis, each son and daughter of Nepal has to believe, think and work like a Hero. The objective of the Nabil Bank Heroes of Nepal series is to provide a platform for us to show case the strengths and achievements of true Nepali Heroes, so that we can all learn from them and become Heroes of Nepal ourselves.” Nabil Bank plans to give continuation to this series in the days ahead by bringing in young people who have done something great in their lives so that we can all gain inspirations from their life journeys. Nabil Bank has launched its Heroes of Nepal series with the objective of recognizing and felicitating Nepalis who have achieved extraordinary feats. The purpose behind the Heroes of Nepal series is to highlight and learn from the life journeys of exceptional Nepalis, so as to draw inspiration from them for all Nepalis to strive to lead extraordinary lives. In an event organized in Rastriya Sabhagriha on Friday 15th November 2019, Nabil Bank initiated the Heroes of Nepal series by felicitating Mr. Nirmal Purja ‘Nims Dai’ for setting a world record of climbing the world’s 14 highest peaks within 7 months. At the event Nirmalji shared not only the adventures of his 14 historic summit ascents, but also the challenges of his journey through life. The event was attended by the Bank’s senior management team, media personalities and Nepali youth. In the event Mr. Purja delivered an inspiring address on his life journey and the hardships he faced along the way to make possible, ‘Project Possible’. While today everyone sees him as a world record holder, in the event Nirmalji let everyone see the human side of the man who has achieved a super human task. Following Mr. Purja’s presentation there was a panel discussion with Mr. Purja, Ms. Shrinkhala Khatiwada and Mr. Anil Shah to dive a little deeper into areas from which we all can draw inspiration. Nabil Bank felicitated Mr. Purja for his great accomplishment and awarded him with a sum of Rs. 7,00,000 (Rupees Seven lakhs) as a token of appreciation and an encouragement for him to continue pursuing his passion. Following which, Nabil Bank in collaboration with the Nepal Mountaineering Association, also committed to provide scholarships to 15 children from families of mountaineers who lost their lives while on expeditions in the Himalaya. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank said, “For us to truly build a Prosperous Nepal with Happy Nepalis, each son and daughter of Nepal has to believe, think and work like a Hero. The objective of the Nabil Bank Heroes of Nepal series is to provide a platform for us to show case the strengths and achievements of true Nepali Heroes, so that we can all learn from them and become Heroes of Nepal ourselves.” Nabil Bank plans to give continuation to this series in the days ahead by bringing in young people who have done something great in their lives so that we can all gain inspirations from their life journeys. "
2019-11-17,Know the Q1 major financial indicators of leading banks Nabil and NIC Asia; both bank's are in billionaire club,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/know-the-q1-major-financial-indicators-of-leading-banks-nabil-and-nic-asia-both-banks-are-in-billionaire-club,"Profit and Distributable Profit Nabil Bank Limited (Nabil) and NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has published its first quarter report for the FY 2076/77. Nabil earns Rs 1.12 arba whereas NIC Asia earns Rs 1 arba. Similarly, Nabil and NIC Asia has Rs 74.22 crore and Rs 44.84 crore as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments. Deposits from customers and Loans & Advance to Customers: Nabil Bank's deposit from customers stands at Rs 1.72 kharba whereas loans and advances to customers stands Rs 1.35 kharba in the first quarter. Similarly, NIC Asia Bank's deposit from customers stands at Rs 1.79 kharba whereas loans and advances to customers stands Rs 1.54 kharba in the first quarter. Net Interest Income and Operating Profit: The net interest income (core business income) of the Nabil Bank is Rs 1.91 arba whereas NIC Asia Bank's net interest income stands at Rs 1.84 arba. Similarly, Nabil Bank's operating profit stands at Rs 1.60 arba whereas NIC Asia Bank's has Rs 1.42 arba as operating profit. Share Capital, Premium, Retained Earnings and Reserves: Nabil Bank's share capital stands at Rs 9.01 arba (FY 75/76, 12% bonus shares yet to be adjusted in Q1 report) whereas NIC Asia Bank's capital stands at Rs 9.71 arba (FY 75/76, 10% bonus already adjusted in Q1 report). Nabil Bank has Rs 4.75 arba in retained earnings whereas NIC Asia has Rs 70.13 crores. Similarly, Nabil Bank's reserves stands at Rs 10.57 arba whereas NIC Asia reserve stands at Rs 4.50 arba. Major Highlights: * Published EPS, Networth and PE may differ. As per NFRS standard, Weighted average number of shares is taken while calculating EPS, Networth and PE but we have taken number of shares as per Q1 end paid up capital.  Non Performing Loan (NPL): Both banks non performing loan is at below 1%. Nabil Bank's NP is 0.65% where as NIC Asia NPL stands at 0.45%. Annualized EPS, Net Worth and PE Ratio: Nabil Bank's annualized earning per shares stands at Rs 49.87 whereas NIC Asia Bank's is Rs 41.56. Similarly, Nabil Bank's net worth per share is Rs 270.20 whereas NIC Asia Bank's net worth per share is Rs 153.61. Nabil Bank's share is traded at PE of 15.24 times at the end of quarter end whereas NIC Asia Bank's is at 9.29 times. Base Rate: Nabil Bank's has lower base rate than NIC Asia Bank. NABIL base rate stands at 7.94% whereas NICA base rate is at 9.51%. Profit and Distributable Profit Nabil Bank Limited (Nabil) and NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has published its first quarter report for the FY 2076/77. Nabil earns Rs 1.12 arba whereas NIC Asia earns Rs 1 arba. Similarly, Nabil and NIC Asia has Rs 74.22 crore and Rs 44.84 crore as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments. Deposits from customers and Loans & Advance to Customers: Nabil Bank's deposit from customers stands at Rs 1.72 kharba whereas loans and advances to customers stands Rs 1.35 kharba in the first quarter. Similarly, NIC Asia Bank's deposit from customers stands at Rs 1.79 kharba whereas loans and advances to customers stands Rs 1.54 kharba in the first quarter. Net Interest Income and Operating Profit: The net interest income (core business income) of the Nabil Bank is Rs 1.91 arba whereas NIC Asia Bank's net interest income stands at Rs 1.84 arba. Similarly, Nabil Bank's operating profit stands at Rs 1.60 arba whereas NIC Asia Bank's has Rs 1.42 arba as operating profit. Share Capital, Premium, Retained Earnings and Reserves: Nabil Bank's share capital stands at Rs 9.01 arba (FY 75/76, 12% bonus shares yet to be adjusted in Q1 report) whereas NIC Asia Bank's capital stands at Rs 9.71 arba (FY 75/76, 10% bonus already adjusted in Q1 report). Nabil Bank has Rs 4.75 arba in retained earnings whereas NIC Asia has Rs 70.13 crores. Similarly, Nabil Bank's reserves stands at Rs 10.57 arba whereas NIC Asia reserve stands at Rs 4.50 arba. Major Highlights: * Published EPS, Networth and PE may differ. As per NFRS standard, Weighted average number of shares is taken while calculating EPS, Networth and PE but we have taken number of shares as per Q1 end paid up capital.  Non Performing Loan (NPL): Both banks non performing loan is at below 1%. Nabil Bank's NP is 0.65% where as NIC Asia NPL stands at 0.45%. Annualized EPS, Net Worth and PE Ratio: Nabil Bank's annualized earning per shares stands at Rs 49.87 whereas NIC Asia Bank's is Rs 41.56. Similarly, Nabil Bank's net worth per share is Rs 270.20 whereas NIC Asia Bank's net worth per share is Rs 153.61. Nabil Bank's share is traded at PE of 15.24 times at the end of quarter end whereas NIC Asia Bank's is at 9.29 times. Base Rate: Nabil Bank's has lower base rate than NIC Asia Bank. NABIL base rate stands at 7.94% whereas NICA base rate is at 9.51%. Profit and Distributable Profit Nabil Bank Limited (Nabil) and NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has published its first quarter report for the FY 2076/77. Nabil earns Rs 1.12 arba whereas NIC Asia earns Rs 1 arba. Similarly, Nabil and NIC Asia has Rs 74.22 crore and Rs 44.84 crore as distributable profit after PL Appropriation and Regulatory Adjustments. Deposits from customers and Loans & Advance to Customers: Nabil Bank's deposit from customers stands at Rs 1.72 kharba whereas loans and advances to customers stands Rs 1.35 kharba in the first quarter. Similarly, NIC Asia Bank's deposit from customers stands at Rs 1.79 kharba whereas loans and advances to customers stands Rs 1.54 kharba in the first quarter. Net Interest Income and Operating Profit: The net interest income (core business income) of the Nabil Bank is Rs 1.91 arba whereas NIC Asia Bank's net interest income stands at Rs 1.84 arba. Similarly, Nabil Bank's operating profit stands at Rs 1.60 arba whereas NIC Asia Bank's has Rs 1.42 arba as operating profit. Share Capital, Premium, Retained Earnings and Reserves: Nabil Bank's share capital stands at Rs 9.01 arba (FY 75/76, 12% bonus shares yet to be adjusted in Q1 report) whereas NIC Asia Bank's capital stands at Rs 9.71 arba (FY 75/76, 10% bonus already adjusted in Q1 report). Nabil Bank has Rs 4.75 arba in retained earnings whereas NIC Asia has Rs 70.13 crores. Similarly, Nabil Bank's reserves stands at Rs 10.57 arba whereas NIC Asia reserve stands at Rs 4.50 arba. Major Highlights: * Published EPS, Networth and PE may differ. As per NFRS standard, Weighted average number of shares is taken while calculating EPS, Networth and PE but we have taken number of shares as per Q1 end paid up capital.  Non Performing Loan (NPL): Both banks non performing loan is at below 1%. Nabil Bank's NP is 0.65% where as NIC Asia NPL stands at 0.45%. Annualized EPS, Net Worth and PE Ratio: Nabil Bank's annualized earning per shares stands at Rs 49.87 whereas NIC Asia Bank's is Rs 41.56. Similarly, Nabil Bank's net worth per share is Rs 270.20 whereas NIC Asia Bank's net worth per share is Rs 153.61. Nabil Bank's share is traded at PE of 15.24 times at the end of quarter end whereas NIC Asia Bank's is at 9.29 times. Base Rate: Nabil Bank's has lower base rate than NIC Asia Bank. NABIL base rate stands at 7.94% whereas NICA base rate is at 9.51%. "
2019-11-03,Nabil Bank proposes 34% dividend for its shareholders for 2075/76; 12% bonus and 22% cash dividend,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-proposes-34-dividend-for-its-shareholders-for-207576-12-bonus-and-22-cash-dividend,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) proposes 34% dividend for its shareholders from the profit of FY 2075/76. The 522nd Board Meeting held on kartik 17, 2076 has decided to propose following dividend: Current paid-up capital: Rs 9.01 arba Bonus share: 12% worth Rs 1.08 arba Cash Dividend: 22% worth Rs 1.98 arba including tax amount Total dividend: 34% worth Rs 3.06 arba Paid-up capital after adjustment: Rs 10.09 arba The proposal is subject to approval from Nepal Rastra Bank and the upcoming AGM of the bank. The bank's dividend history is as follows:  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) proposes 34% dividend for its shareholders from the profit of FY 2075/76. The 522nd Board Meeting held on kartik 17, 2076 has decided to propose following dividend: Current paid-up capital: Rs 9.01 arba Bonus share: 12% worth Rs 1.08 arba Cash Dividend: 22% worth Rs 1.98 arba including tax amount Total dividend: 34% worth Rs 3.06 arba Paid-up capital after adjustment: Rs 10.09 arba The proposal is subject to approval from Nepal Rastra Bank and the upcoming AGM of the bank. The bank's dividend history is as follows:  Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) proposes 34% dividend for its shareholders from the profit of FY 2075/76. The 522nd Board Meeting held on kartik 17, 2076 has decided to propose following dividend: Current paid-up capital: Rs 9.01 arba Bonus share: 12% worth Rs 1.08 arba Cash Dividend: 22% worth Rs 1.98 arba including tax amount Total dividend: 34% worth Rs 3.06 arba Paid-up capital after adjustment: Rs 10.09 arba The proposal is subject to approval from Nepal Rastra Bank and the upcoming AGM of the bank. The bank's dividend history is as follows:  "
2019-10-25,18 commercial banks report call deposits higher than 10% of total deposits; Average ratio stands at 12.3%,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/18-commercial-banks-report-call-deposits-higher-than-10-of-total-deposits-average-ratio-stands-at-123,"Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has published a circular to A, B and C class Bank and Financial Institutions (BFI's) regarding a limitation of call deposits. NRB has instructed A class BFI’s to limit the call deposits to 10% of total deposits. Similarly, B and C class BFI’s are allowed to keep a maximum 15% call deposits.  All the BFI’s crossing this limit are allowed to bring down the call deposits portion within Ashad end, 2077 and also these BFI’s are now restricted to collect additional call deposits. The average call deposits of commercial banks stands at 12.3% as of Bhadra end, 2076. Ten out of 28 Class A banks have call deposits below 10% of their total deposits. Prime Commercial Bank has the highest call deposit of 24.8%.  Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has published a circular to A, B and C class Bank and Financial Institutions (BFI's) regarding a limitation of call deposits. NRB has instructed A class BFI’s to limit the call deposits to 10% of total deposits. Similarly, B and C class BFI’s are allowed to keep a maximum 15% call deposits.  All the BFI’s crossing this limit are allowed to bring down the call deposits portion within Ashad end, 2077 and also these BFI’s are now restricted to collect additional call deposits. The average call deposits of commercial banks stands at 12.3% as of Bhadra end, 2076. Ten out of 28 Class A banks have call deposits below 10% of their total deposits. Prime Commercial Bank has the highest call deposit of 24.8%.  Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has published a circular to A, B and C class Bank and Financial Institutions (BFI's) regarding a limitation of call deposits. NRB has instructed A class BFI’s to limit the call deposits to 10% of total deposits. Similarly, B and C class BFI’s are allowed to keep a maximum 15% call deposits.  All the BFI’s crossing this limit are allowed to bring down the call deposits portion within Ashad end, 2077 and also these BFI’s are now restricted to collect additional call deposits. The average call deposits of commercial banks stands at 12.3% as of Bhadra end, 2076. Ten out of 28 Class A banks have call deposits below 10% of their total deposits. Prime Commercial Bank has the highest call deposit of 24.8%.  "
2019-09-11,"'A', 'B' and 'C' class banks floated Rs 45.41 arba margin loan in 2075/76; 26 Commercial banks floating a total of Rs 35.57 arba, see the list",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/a-b-and-c-class-banks-floated-rs-4541-arba-margin-loan-in-207576-26-commercial-banks-floating-a-total-of-rs-3557-arba-see-the-list,"Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has published the financial statistics of Banks and Financial Institutions (BFIs) for FY 2075/76 till Ashad end. As you can see in the table below, the aggregate amount of margin type loan floated by all BFIs has amounted to Rs 45.41 arba as opposed to Rs 41.12 arba last year. Out of the total margin loan for this year, Rs 35.57 arba has been floated by commercial banks, Rs 7.6 arba by development banks and Rs 2.24 arba by finance companies.  Commercial banks, being the largest loaner, lets take a closer look. Out of the 28 commercial banks, Nepal SBI Bank (SBI) and Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) have not floated any margin type loan . Similarly, from the remaining 26 commercial banks, Nepal Bank (NBL) has floated the highest amount standing at Rs 4.7 arba followed by Citizen Bank (CZBIL) and Siddhartha Bank (SBL) at Rs 2.7 arba. The average margin type loan for the industry stands at Rs 1.27 arba.   Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has published the financial statistics of Banks and Financial Institutions (BFIs) for FY 2075/76 till Ashad end. As you can see in the table below, the aggregate amount of margin type loan floated by all BFIs has amounted to Rs 45.41 arba as opposed to Rs 41.12 arba last year. Out of the total margin loan for this year, Rs 35.57 arba has been floated by commercial banks, Rs 7.6 arba by development banks and Rs 2.24 arba by finance companies.  Commercial banks, being the largest loaner, lets take a closer look. Out of the 28 commercial banks, Nepal SBI Bank (SBI) and Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) have not floated any margin type loan . Similarly, from the remaining 26 commercial banks, Nepal Bank (NBL) has floated the highest amount standing at Rs 4.7 arba followed by Citizen Bank (CZBIL) and Siddhartha Bank (SBL) at Rs 2.7 arba. The average margin type loan for the industry stands at Rs 1.27 arba.   Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has published the financial statistics of Banks and Financial Institutions (BFIs) for FY 2075/76 till Ashad end. As you can see in the table below, the aggregate amount of margin type loan floated by all BFIs has amounted to Rs 45.41 arba as opposed to Rs 41.12 arba last year. Out of the total margin loan for this year, Rs 35.57 arba has been floated by commercial banks, Rs 7.6 arba by development banks and Rs 2.24 arba by finance companies.  Commercial banks, being the largest loaner, lets take a closer look. Out of the 28 commercial banks, Nepal SBI Bank (SBI) and Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) have not floated any margin type loan . Similarly, from the remaining 26 commercial banks, Nepal Bank (NBL) has floated the highest amount standing at Rs 4.7 arba followed by Citizen Bank (CZBIL) and Siddhartha Bank (SBL) at Rs 2.7 arba. The average margin type loan for the industry stands at Rs 1.27 arba.   "
2019-09-10,Nabil Bank and ECAN sign MOU for Banking services; students and ECAN members to enjoy specialized and discounted banking services from Nabil Bank,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-ecan-sign-mou-for-banking-services-students-and-ecan-members-to-enjoy-specialized-and-discounted-banking-services-from-nabil-bank,"A MoU has been signed between Nabil Bank Ltd. and Educational Consultancy Association of Nepal (ECAN) on 8 September, 2019 for banking services to ECAN, members of ECAN, their employees and students. As per the MOU, Nabil Bank will be the official banker of ECAN, its members and their service seeking students. Nabil Bank will provide specialized services to the students and ECAN members at the discounted prices for services like Education Loan, Inward and Outward Remittances, Credit Cards, Online fee payments and all other banking services. Similarly, ECAN, its members and students will enjoy specialized and discounted banking services from Nabil Bank as most preferred and official banker. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank said “MOU with ECAN is the commitment of Nabil to provide the best financial services to the students of Nepal who are the future of the country.” Mr. Bishnu Hari Pandey, President of ECAN said “We are proud to have a reputed Bank like Nabil as the official banker for ECAN and receive the firm commitment from the Bank to provide specialized and focused services to our students and members.”   A MoU has been signed between Nabil Bank Ltd. and Educational Consultancy Association of Nepal (ECAN) on 8 September, 2019 for banking services to ECAN, members of ECAN, their employees and students. As per the MOU, Nabil Bank will be the official banker of ECAN, its members and their service seeking students. Nabil Bank will provide specialized services to the students and ECAN members at the discounted prices for services like Education Loan, Inward and Outward Remittances, Credit Cards, Online fee payments and all other banking services. Similarly, ECAN, its members and students will enjoy specialized and discounted banking services from Nabil Bank as most preferred and official banker. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank said “MOU with ECAN is the commitment of Nabil to provide the best financial services to the students of Nepal who are the future of the country.” Mr. Bishnu Hari Pandey, President of ECAN said “We are proud to have a reputed Bank like Nabil as the official banker for ECAN and receive the firm commitment from the Bank to provide specialized and focused services to our students and members.”   A MoU has been signed between Nabil Bank Ltd. and Educational Consultancy Association of Nepal (ECAN) on 8 September, 2019 for banking services to ECAN, members of ECAN, their employees and students. As per the MOU, Nabil Bank will be the official banker of ECAN, its members and their service seeking students. Nabil Bank will provide specialized services to the students and ECAN members at the discounted prices for services like Education Loan, Inward and Outward Remittances, Credit Cards, Online fee payments and all other banking services. Similarly, ECAN, its members and students will enjoy specialized and discounted banking services from Nabil Bank as most preferred and official banker. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank said “MOU with ECAN is the commitment of Nabil to provide the best financial services to the students of Nepal who are the future of the country.” Mr. Bishnu Hari Pandey, President of ECAN said “We are proud to have a reputed Bank like Nabil as the official banker for ECAN and receive the firm commitment from the Bank to provide specialized and focused services to our students and members.”   "
2019-09-10,"""10% Nabil Bank Debenture 2082"" added to SEBON pipeline; Debentures worth Rs 2 arba to be issued",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/10-nabil-bank-debenture-2082-added-to-sebon-pipeline-debentures-worth-rs-2-arba-to-be-issued,"Securities Board of Nepal (SEBON) has added ""10% Nabil Bank Debenture 2082"" to its pipeline for review and approval. Nabil Bank is issuing a total of 20 lakh units at Rs 1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs 2 arba and will be providing 10% interest rate. The debenture will mature in 7 year i.e. in 2082. Laxmi Capital Market has been appointed as the issue manager. ICRA Nepal has assigned [ICRANP] LAA- (pronounced ICRA NP L double A minus) to the proposed subordinated debenture programme of NPR 2,000 million of Nabil Bank Limited. The subordinated debenture rating of AA- is one notch lower than the rating of AA. Instruments with AA- rating are considered to have a high degree of safety regarding the timely servicing of financial obligations. Such instruments carry very low credit risk. Similarly, ICRA Nepal has also reaffirmed the rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA- (pronounced ICRA NP Issuer Rating Double A minus) to Nabil Bank Limited (Nabil). The entities with [ICRANP-IR] AA- rating are considered to have high degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such issuers carry very low credit risk. The rating is only an opinion on the general creditworthiness of the rated entity and not specific to any particular debt instrument. Securities Board of Nepal (SEBON) has added ""10% Nabil Bank Debenture 2082"" to its pipeline for review and approval. Nabil Bank is issuing a total of 20 lakh units at Rs 1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs 2 arba and will be providing 10% interest rate. The debenture will mature in 7 year i.e. in 2082. Laxmi Capital Market has been appointed as the issue manager. ICRA Nepal has assigned [ICRANP] LAA- (pronounced ICRA NP L double A minus) to the proposed subordinated debenture programme of NPR 2,000 million of Nabil Bank Limited. The subordinated debenture rating of AA- is one notch lower than the rating of AA. Instruments with AA- rating are considered to have a high degree of safety regarding the timely servicing of financial obligations. Such instruments carry very low credit risk. Similarly, ICRA Nepal has also reaffirmed the rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA- (pronounced ICRA NP Issuer Rating Double A minus) to Nabil Bank Limited (Nabil). The entities with [ICRANP-IR] AA- rating are considered to have high degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such issuers carry very low credit risk. The rating is only an opinion on the general creditworthiness of the rated entity and not specific to any particular debt instrument. Securities Board of Nepal (SEBON) has added ""10% Nabil Bank Debenture 2082"" to its pipeline for review and approval. Nabil Bank is issuing a total of 20 lakh units at Rs 1000 per unit. The total value of the issue is Rs 2 arba and will be providing 10% interest rate. The debenture will mature in 7 year i.e. in 2082. Laxmi Capital Market has been appointed as the issue manager. ICRA Nepal has assigned [ICRANP] LAA- (pronounced ICRA NP L double A minus) to the proposed subordinated debenture programme of NPR 2,000 million of Nabil Bank Limited. The subordinated debenture rating of AA- is one notch lower than the rating of AA. Instruments with AA- rating are considered to have a high degree of safety regarding the timely servicing of financial obligations. Such instruments carry very low credit risk. Similarly, ICRA Nepal has also reaffirmed the rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA- (pronounced ICRA NP Issuer Rating Double A minus) to Nabil Bank Limited (Nabil). The entities with [ICRANP-IR] AA- rating are considered to have high degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such issuers carry very low credit risk. The rating is only an opinion on the general creditworthiness of the rated entity and not specific to any particular debt instrument. "
2019-09-03,Nabil Bank launches Group Personal Accident coverage for its individual depositors; customers to receive insurance claim of Rs 10 lakh in case of death or permanent disability,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-group-personal-accident-coverage-for-its-individual-depositors-customers-to-receive-insurance-claim-of-rs-10-lakh-in-case-of-death-or-permanent-disability,"Nabil Bank has launched its all-new Nabil Group Personal Accident coverage service worth of Rs 10 lakh for its individual account holders. The insurance coverage agreement, to be effective from Bhadra 16, 2076, was signed between DY CEO of the bank Mr. Anil Khanal and CEO of NLG Insurance Mr. Sunil Ballav Pant. After the deal, customers of the bank who maintain minimum daily balance of Rs 5000 or more in their saving accounts with the bank shall be entitled to receive Rs 10 lakh as insurance claim in case of the death or permanent disability of the depositor in any accident, as per the media statement. The bank currently provides its services from its 79 branches and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents around the nation. Nabil Bank has launched its all-new Nabil Group Personal Accident coverage service worth of Rs 10 lakh for its individual account holders. The insurance coverage agreement, to be effective from Bhadra 16, 2076, was signed between DY CEO of the bank Mr. Anil Khanal and CEO of NLG Insurance Mr. Sunil Ballav Pant. After the deal, customers of the bank who maintain minimum daily balance of Rs 5000 or more in their saving accounts with the bank shall be entitled to receive Rs 10 lakh as insurance claim in case of the death or permanent disability of the depositor in any accident, as per the media statement. The bank currently provides its services from its 79 branches and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents around the nation. Nabil Bank has launched its all-new Nabil Group Personal Accident coverage service worth of Rs 10 lakh for its individual account holders. The insurance coverage agreement, to be effective from Bhadra 16, 2076, was signed between DY CEO of the bank Mr. Anil Khanal and CEO of NLG Insurance Mr. Sunil Ballav Pant. After the deal, customers of the bank who maintain minimum daily balance of Rs 5000 or more in their saving accounts with the bank shall be entitled to receive Rs 10 lakh as insurance claim in case of the death or permanent disability of the depositor in any accident, as per the media statement. The bank currently provides its services from its 79 branches and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents around the nation. "
2019-08-27,How efficient have commercial banks been in utilizing their assets and equity? Does your bank provide the highest return?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/how-efficient-have-commercial-banks-been-in-utilizing-their-assets-and-equity-does-your-bank-provide-the-highest-return,"While investing in a company, an investor looks at number of factors and indicators which may include net profit, earnings per share, net worth per share, P/E ratio, total assets etc. These indicators may give a view about the financial strength of the company and its future prospects, but the above mentioned indicators fail to assess the efficiency of the company in utilizing its assets and equity. To check the efficiency, a key indicator is Return on Asset (ROA) which is calculated by dividing net profits with the total asset. It shows the percentage of profit earned by employing the given number of assets. The following is the ROA of commercial banks based on the latest data of Q4 FY 75/76:   The industry average ROA has increased to 1.80% from 1.71% posted in the previous year. The highest ROA has been posted by Agricultural Development Bank (ADBL) at 2.85% while Century Commercial Bank (CCBL) has the lowest ROA of 1.10%. The ROA of NIC Asia Bank (NICA) has improved compared to the previous year while that of Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has severely fallen. Similarly, another indicator is the Return on Equity (ROE) which reflects the efficiency of the company in employing its equity to generate returns. It is calculated by dividing the net profits with the total equity employed. The following is the ROE of commercial banks based on the latest data of Q4 FY 75/76:   The industry average ROE has increased to 14.33% from 13.45% posted in the previous year. NIC Asia Bank (NICA) was able to post the highest ROE in the industry at 20.40% which was previously at 10.57%, standing below the industry average. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest ROE of 7.42% although it has increased from 6.85% posted in the previous year. The ROE of Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has fallen from industry leader in ROE in previous year (22.90%) to the bottom three in the current year (8.87%). While investing in a company, an investor looks at number of factors and indicators which may include net profit, earnings per share, net worth per share, P/E ratio, total assets etc. These indicators may give a view about the financial strength of the company and its future prospects, but the above mentioned indicators fail to assess the efficiency of the company in utilizing its assets and equity. To check the efficiency, a key indicator is Return on Asset (ROA) which is calculated by dividing net profits with the total asset. It shows the percentage of profit earned by employing the given number of assets. The following is the ROA of commercial banks based on the latest data of Q4 FY 75/76:   The industry average ROA has increased to 1.80% from 1.71% posted in the previous year. The highest ROA has been posted by Agricultural Development Bank (ADBL) at 2.85% while Century Commercial Bank (CCBL) has the lowest ROA of 1.10%. The ROA of NIC Asia Bank (NICA) has improved compared to the previous year while that of Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has severely fallen. Similarly, another indicator is the Return on Equity (ROE) which reflects the efficiency of the company in employing its equity to generate returns. It is calculated by dividing the net profits with the total equity employed. The following is the ROE of commercial banks based on the latest data of Q4 FY 75/76:   The industry average ROE has increased to 14.33% from 13.45% posted in the previous year. NIC Asia Bank (NICA) was able to post the highest ROE in the industry at 20.40% which was previously at 10.57%, standing below the industry average. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest ROE of 7.42% although it has increased from 6.85% posted in the previous year. The ROE of Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has fallen from industry leader in ROE in previous year (22.90%) to the bottom three in the current year (8.87%). While investing in a company, an investor looks at number of factors and indicators which may include net profit, earnings per share, net worth per share, P/E ratio, total assets etc. These indicators may give a view about the financial strength of the company and its future prospects, but the above mentioned indicators fail to assess the efficiency of the company in utilizing its assets and equity. To check the efficiency, a key indicator is Return on Asset (ROA) which is calculated by dividing net profits with the total asset. It shows the percentage of profit earned by employing the given number of assets. The following is the ROA of commercial banks based on the latest data of Q4 FY 75/76:   The industry average ROA has increased to 1.80% from 1.71% posted in the previous year. The highest ROA has been posted by Agricultural Development Bank (ADBL) at 2.85% while Century Commercial Bank (CCBL) has the lowest ROA of 1.10%. The ROA of NIC Asia Bank (NICA) has improved compared to the previous year while that of Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has severely fallen. Similarly, another indicator is the Return on Equity (ROE) which reflects the efficiency of the company in employing its equity to generate returns. It is calculated by dividing the net profits with the total equity employed. The following is the ROE of commercial banks based on the latest data of Q4 FY 75/76:   The industry average ROE has increased to 14.33% from 13.45% posted in the previous year. NIC Asia Bank (NICA) was able to post the highest ROE in the industry at 20.40% which was previously at 10.57%, standing below the industry average. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest ROE of 7.42% although it has increased from 6.85% posted in the previous year. The ROE of Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has fallen from industry leader in ROE in previous year (22.90%) to the bottom three in the current year (8.87%). "
2019-08-26,"Base rate, interest spread rate and cost of funds of commercial banks as of Q4 of FY 2075/76; Banks with lower base rate enjoying higher spread rate",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/base-rate-interest-spread-rate-and-cost-of-funds-of-commercial-banks-as-of-q4-of-fy-207576-banks-with-lower-base-rate-enjoying-higher-spread-rate-2020-08-25,
2019-08-20,Commercial Banks urge shareholders to claim uncollected dividend; details published on respective websites,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-urge-shareholders-to-claim-uncollected-dividend-details-published-on-respective-websites,"A number commercial banks have published notices urging the shareholders to claim their respective dividends and dematerialize their holding. These banks are Everest Bank Limited (EBL), Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL), Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL), Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) and Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB). The details of shareholders who haven’t claimed dividend in the past years is available on the respective websites of the banks. www.everestbankltd.com (EBL) www.nabilbank.com/index.php/investor-relations (NABIL) www.siddharthabank.com/Notices/262/ (SBL) http://globalimebank.com/category/uncollected-dividend.html (GBIME) https://nibl.com.np/downloads/UnclaimedDividend1998_2018.pdf (NIB) EBL had issued 20% cash dividend out of FY 74/75 profits, NABIL had issued 12% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend while SBL had issued 5% bonus shares and 8.16% cash dividend. Similarly, GBIME issued 16% bonus shares and NIB issued 18% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend out of the profits of FY 74/75. A number commercial banks have published notices urging the shareholders to claim their respective dividends and dematerialize their holding. These banks are Everest Bank Limited (EBL), Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL), Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL), Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) and Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB). The details of shareholders who haven’t claimed dividend in the past years is available on the respective websites of the banks. www.everestbankltd.com (EBL) www.nabilbank.com/index.php/investor-relations (NABIL) www.siddharthabank.com/Notices/262/ (SBL) http://globalimebank.com/category/uncollected-dividend.html (GBIME) https://nibl.com.np/downloads/UnclaimedDividend1998_2018.pdf (NIB) EBL had issued 20% cash dividend out of FY 74/75 profits, NABIL had issued 12% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend while SBL had issued 5% bonus shares and 8.16% cash dividend. Similarly, GBIME issued 16% bonus shares and NIB issued 18% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend out of the profits of FY 74/75. A number commercial banks have published notices urging the shareholders to claim their respective dividends and dematerialize their holding. These banks are Everest Bank Limited (EBL), Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL), Siddhartha Bank Limited (SBL), Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) and Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB). The details of shareholders who haven’t claimed dividend in the past years is available on the respective websites of the banks. www.everestbankltd.com (EBL) www.nabilbank.com/index.php/investor-relations (NABIL) www.siddharthabank.com/Notices/262/ (SBL) http://globalimebank.com/category/uncollected-dividend.html (GBIME) https://nibl.com.np/downloads/UnclaimedDividend1998_2018.pdf (NIB) EBL had issued 20% cash dividend out of FY 74/75 profits, NABIL had issued 12% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend while SBL had issued 5% bonus shares and 8.16% cash dividend. Similarly, GBIME issued 16% bonus shares and NIB issued 18% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend out of the profits of FY 74/75. "
2019-08-19,How did commercial banks fare in major indicators in last quarter of 2075/76? Find the details,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/how-did-commercial-banks-fare-in-major-indicators-in-last-quarter-of-207576-find-the-details,"Commercial banks in Nepal have not only acted as the custodian of wealth of the nation but also as resources which are necessary for the economic development of the country. With the end of Fiscal Year 2075/76, all 28 commercial banks have published their unaudited 4th quarterly report. Here, we have presented the comparative financial outlook of those banks with their previous year’s performance on the basis of various key financial indicators. Reserve and Surplus The total reserve and surplus of the commercial banks has reached to Rs.186.40 billion in the fiscal year 2075/76, whereas it was Rs. 153.90 billion in the fiscal year 2074/75, an increase by 21.12%. The highest growth of reserve and surplus is maintained by NIC Asia bank (68.48%) and the lowest by Civil bank (12.34%). Source: Annual Report and SS Pro Deposits from Customers The total deposits collected by banks from their customers have increased by 16.42% in this FY2075/76. Janata Bank has reported the highest growth in deposit from customers, i.e. by 30.33% in the Fiscal Year 2075/76 followed by NIC Asia with 26.67%, while Prime Commercial Bank has shown the lowest rise in deposit collected from customers, only by 6.06%. Source: Annual Report and SS Pro  Loans and Advances As compared to previous fiscal year, the combined loans and advances of these banks has increased by 19.37% in this fiscal year 2075/76. Nepal Bangladesh Bank has got the highest growth in loans and advances, by 28.96%, whereas Prime Commercial Bank has the lowest growth in loans and advance, only by 7.95%. Source: Annual Report and SS Pro Net Interest Income The net interest income of these banks has shown the growth of 25.31% in two years. The highest growth is maintained by NCC Bank, i.e.91.48%, and the lowest (negative) by Nepal bank with 3.27% only. Source: Annual Report and SS Pro Net Profit The net profit of these commercial banks stands at Rs.65.40 billions in the FY 2075/76, whereas it was 53.30 billion in the previous FY 2074/75, an increase by 22.69%. NIC Asia has maintained the highest growth by 128.74% while Nepal Bank has negative growth by 18.77% in this fiscal year 2018/19. Source: Annual Report and SS Pro Others The highest EPS of Rs.59.17 is maintained by Rastriya Banijya Bank and the lowest EPS of Rs.9.50 by Civil Bank. The Standard Chartered Bank Nepal has the highest P/E ratio of 21.90, whereas Agricultural Bank has the lowest P/E ratio of 9.16. Source: Annual Report and SS Pro Commercial banks in Nepal have not only acted as the custodian of wealth of the nation but also as resources which are necessary for the economic development of the country. With the end of Fiscal Year 2075/76, all 28 commercial banks have published their unaudited 4th quarterly report. Here, we have presented the comparative financial outlook of those banks with their previous year’s performance on the basis of various key financial indicators. Reserve and Surplus The total reserve and surplus of the commercial banks has reached to Rs.186.40 billion in the fiscal year 2075/76, whereas it was Rs. 153.90 billion in the fiscal year 2074/75, an increase by 21.12%. The highest growth of reserve and surplus is maintained by NIC Asia bank (68.48%) and the lowest by Civil bank (12.34%). Source: Annual Report and SS Pro Deposits from Customers The total deposits collected by banks from their customers have increased by 16.42% in this FY2075/76. Janata Bank has reported the highest growth in deposit from customers, i.e. by 30.33% in the Fiscal Year 2075/76 followed by NIC Asia with 26.67%, while Prime Commercial Bank has shown the lowest rise in deposit collected from customers, only by 6.06%. Source: Annual Report and SS Pro  Loans and Advances As compared to previous fiscal year, the combined loans and advances of these banks has increased by 19.37% in this fiscal year 2075/76. Nepal Bangladesh Bank has got the highest growth in loans and advances, by 28.96%, whereas Prime Commercial Bank has the lowest growth in loans and advance, only by 7.95%. Source: Annual Report and SS Pro Net Interest Income The net interest income of these banks has shown the growth of 25.31% in two years. The highest growth is maintained by NCC Bank, i.e.91.48%, and the lowest (negative) by Nepal bank with 3.27% only. Source: Annual Report and SS Pro Net Profit The net profit of these commercial banks stands at Rs.65.40 billions in the FY 2075/76, whereas it was 53.30 billion in the previous FY 2074/75, an increase by 22.69%. NIC Asia has maintained the highest growth by 128.74% while Nepal Bank has negative growth by 18.77% in this fiscal year 2018/19. Source: Annual Report and SS Pro Others The highest EPS of Rs.59.17 is maintained by Rastriya Banijya Bank and the lowest EPS of Rs.9.50 by Civil Bank. The Standard Chartered Bank Nepal has the highest P/E ratio of 21.90, whereas Agricultural Bank has the lowest P/E ratio of 9.16. Source: Annual Report and SS Pro Commercial banks in Nepal have not only acted as the custodian of wealth of the nation but also as resources which are necessary for the economic development of the country. With the end of Fiscal Year 2075/76, all 28 commercial banks have published their unaudited 4th quarterly report. Here, we have presented the comparative financial outlook of those banks with their previous year’s performance on the basis of various key financial indicators. Reserve and Surplus The total reserve and surplus of the commercial banks has reached to Rs.186.40 billion in the fiscal year 2075/76, whereas it was Rs. 153.90 billion in the fiscal year 2074/75, an increase by 21.12%. The highest growth of reserve and surplus is maintained by NIC Asia bank (68.48%) and the lowest by Civil bank (12.34%). Source: Annual Report and SS Pro Deposits from Customers The total deposits collected by banks from their customers have increased by 16.42% in this FY2075/76. Janata Bank has reported the highest growth in deposit from customers, i.e. by 30.33% in the Fiscal Year 2075/76 followed by NIC Asia with 26.67%, while Prime Commercial Bank has shown the lowest rise in deposit collected from customers, only by 6.06%. Source: Annual Report and SS Pro  Loans and Advances As compared to previous fiscal year, the combined loans and advances of these banks has increased by 19.37% in this fiscal year 2075/76. Nepal Bangladesh Bank has got the highest growth in loans and advances, by 28.96%, whereas Prime Commercial Bank has the lowest growth in loans and advance, only by 7.95%. Source: Annual Report and SS Pro Net Interest Income The net interest income of these banks has shown the growth of 25.31% in two years. The highest growth is maintained by NCC Bank, i.e.91.48%, and the lowest (negative) by Nepal bank with 3.27% only. Source: Annual Report and SS Pro Net Profit The net profit of these commercial banks stands at Rs.65.40 billions in the FY 2075/76, whereas it was 53.30 billion in the previous FY 2074/75, an increase by 22.69%. NIC Asia has maintained the highest growth by 128.74% while Nepal Bank has negative growth by 18.77% in this fiscal year 2018/19. Source: Annual Report and SS Pro Others The highest EPS of Rs.59.17 is maintained by Rastriya Banijya Bank and the lowest EPS of Rs.9.50 by Civil Bank. The Standard Chartered Bank Nepal has the highest P/E ratio of 21.90, whereas Agricultural Bank has the lowest P/E ratio of 9.16. Source: Annual Report and SS Pro "
2019-08-18,What is the dividend capacity of Commercial Banks? What can we expect?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/what-is-the-dividend-capacity-of-commercial-banks-what-can-we-expect,"With the end of month of Shrawan, we have seen plethora of companies unveiling their fourth quarterly reports of various companies across different sectors. Publication of fourth quarterly reports is one of most anticipated event as it gives an investor a complete picture about company’s performance over the entire financial year. Dividend, either cash or bonus share, is why a long term investor predominately puts money on any company’s share. In commercial banks, capacity distribute dividend depends upon its share capital, profit and other regulatory requirements as per Nepal Rastra Bank. Apart from its profit, banks can also distribute dividends from the Share Premium collected. Let’s look into the table below to figure out dividend capacity of each of the commercial banks in Nepal. (Source: Quarterly Reports) Amongst the 27 listed commercial banks in NEPSE, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) holds highest dividend distributing capacity of 68%, out of which 33% is from share premium collected. However, last year’s negative retained earnings is estimated to reduce this year’s dividend capacity by almost 5%. With dividend capacity of 39%, NMB Bank Limited (NMB) stands second largely due to its capacity from share premium (26%). Closely following NMB is Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with 37% dividend capacity. Century Commercial (CCBL), Civil Bank (CBL) and Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) are the banks with mere 7%, 7% and 12% respectively. Looking at dividend capacity only from the earned profit, Agriculture Development Bank and Nabil Bank leads with 37% and 35%. From various study, we know that market price movement is affected by dividend declared by companies. Higher the dividend declared, higher will be the market price and vice-versa. However, with the overall market confidence going down, will dividend be a key factor to boost investors’ confidence back into the market? Hope it will! As per Q4 reports, 9 out of 27 listed banks have Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) less than 13%, mandated by NRB with implementation of 2% Countercyclical Buffer (CCyB) in this year’s monetary policy. It is likely that many of the banks will opt for bonus shares than cash dividends as CCyB has to be maintained with equity capital. (Disclaimer: The analysis is solely done by media and research team as per the best of the knowledge, so investors are requested not to fully depend in this story for any buying and selling transactions. Invest wisely) With the end of month of Shrawan, we have seen plethora of companies unveiling their fourth quarterly reports of various companies across different sectors. Publication of fourth quarterly reports is one of most anticipated event as it gives an investor a complete picture about company’s performance over the entire financial year. Dividend, either cash or bonus share, is why a long term investor predominately puts money on any company’s share. In commercial banks, capacity distribute dividend depends upon its share capital, profit and other regulatory requirements as per Nepal Rastra Bank. Apart from its profit, banks can also distribute dividends from the Share Premium collected. Let’s look into the table below to figure out dividend capacity of each of the commercial banks in Nepal. (Source: Quarterly Reports) Amongst the 27 listed commercial banks in NEPSE, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) holds highest dividend distributing capacity of 68%, out of which 33% is from share premium collected. However, last year’s negative retained earnings is estimated to reduce this year’s dividend capacity by almost 5%. With dividend capacity of 39%, NMB Bank Limited (NMB) stands second largely due to its capacity from share premium (26%). Closely following NMB is Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with 37% dividend capacity. Century Commercial (CCBL), Civil Bank (CBL) and Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) are the banks with mere 7%, 7% and 12% respectively. Looking at dividend capacity only from the earned profit, Agriculture Development Bank and Nabil Bank leads with 37% and 35%. From various study, we know that market price movement is affected by dividend declared by companies. Higher the dividend declared, higher will be the market price and vice-versa. However, with the overall market confidence going down, will dividend be a key factor to boost investors’ confidence back into the market? Hope it will! As per Q4 reports, 9 out of 27 listed banks have Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) less than 13%, mandated by NRB with implementation of 2% Countercyclical Buffer (CCyB) in this year’s monetary policy. It is likely that many of the banks will opt for bonus shares than cash dividends as CCyB has to be maintained with equity capital. (Disclaimer: The analysis is solely done by media and research team as per the best of the knowledge, so investors are requested not to fully depend in this story for any buying and selling transactions. Invest wisely) With the end of month of Shrawan, we have seen plethora of companies unveiling their fourth quarterly reports of various companies across different sectors. Publication of fourth quarterly reports is one of most anticipated event as it gives an investor a complete picture about company’s performance over the entire financial year. Dividend, either cash or bonus share, is why a long term investor predominately puts money on any company’s share. In commercial banks, capacity distribute dividend depends upon its share capital, profit and other regulatory requirements as per Nepal Rastra Bank. Apart from its profit, banks can also distribute dividends from the Share Premium collected. Let’s look into the table below to figure out dividend capacity of each of the commercial banks in Nepal. (Source: Quarterly Reports) Amongst the 27 listed commercial banks in NEPSE, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) holds highest dividend distributing capacity of 68%, out of which 33% is from share premium collected. However, last year’s negative retained earnings is estimated to reduce this year’s dividend capacity by almost 5%. With dividend capacity of 39%, NMB Bank Limited (NMB) stands second largely due to its capacity from share premium (26%). Closely following NMB is Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) with 37% dividend capacity. Century Commercial (CCBL), Civil Bank (CBL) and Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) are the banks with mere 7%, 7% and 12% respectively. Looking at dividend capacity only from the earned profit, Agriculture Development Bank and Nabil Bank leads with 37% and 35%. From various study, we know that market price movement is affected by dividend declared by companies. Higher the dividend declared, higher will be the market price and vice-versa. However, with the overall market confidence going down, will dividend be a key factor to boost investors’ confidence back into the market? Hope it will! As per Q4 reports, 9 out of 27 listed banks have Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) less than 13%, mandated by NRB with implementation of 2% Countercyclical Buffer (CCyB) in this year’s monetary policy. It is likely that many of the banks will opt for bonus shares than cash dividends as CCyB has to be maintained with equity capital. (Disclaimer: The analysis is solely done by media and research team as per the best of the knowledge, so investors are requested not to fully depend in this story for any buying and selling transactions. Invest wisely) "
2019-08-14,Nabil Bank Q4 financials: net profit crosses Rs 4 arba with meager growth of 7.84% and has 35% dividend distribution capacity,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-q4-financials-net-profit-crosses-rs-4-arba-with-meager-growth-of-784-and-has-35-dividend-distribution-capacity,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published a strong fourth quarter report for FY 2075/76 with stagnant growth of 7.84% in net profit. Nabil Bank profit has increased from Rs 3.98 arba in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2074/75 to Rs 4.29 arba in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2075/76. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 21.93% to Rs 1.64 kharba and also loans and advances to customers rises by 18.54% to Rs 1.29 kharba till the fourth quarter. The net interest income (core business income) of the bank has increased by 17.15% to Rs 7.33 arba from Rs 6.26 arba of the corresponding quarter. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 3.18 arba as distributable profit after Regulatory Adjustments and PL appropriations which can be utilized in distributing dividends to its shareholders. This means Nabil Bank can distribute maximum 35% (approx.) dividend from this year profit if other regulatory requirements are not required. The bank’s paid up capital stands at Rs 9.01 arba with Rs 14.24 arba as its reserve and surplus. The Non-Performing Loan (NPL) of the bank stands at 0.74% which was 0.55% in corresponding quarter. In the fourth quarter, the EPS of the bank stands at Rs 47.65. The net worth per share stands at Rs 258.06 and the quarter end PE ratio stands at 16.79 times. Click here for Q4 report: Major Highlights:   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published a strong fourth quarter report for FY 2075/76 with stagnant growth of 7.84% in net profit. Nabil Bank profit has increased from Rs 3.98 arba in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2074/75 to Rs 4.29 arba in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2075/76. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 21.93% to Rs 1.64 kharba and also loans and advances to customers rises by 18.54% to Rs 1.29 kharba till the fourth quarter. The net interest income (core business income) of the bank has increased by 17.15% to Rs 7.33 arba from Rs 6.26 arba of the corresponding quarter. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 3.18 arba as distributable profit after Regulatory Adjustments and PL appropriations which can be utilized in distributing dividends to its shareholders. This means Nabil Bank can distribute maximum 35% (approx.) dividend from this year profit if other regulatory requirements are not required. The bank’s paid up capital stands at Rs 9.01 arba with Rs 14.24 arba as its reserve and surplus. The Non-Performing Loan (NPL) of the bank stands at 0.74% which was 0.55% in corresponding quarter. In the fourth quarter, the EPS of the bank stands at Rs 47.65. The net worth per share stands at Rs 258.06 and the quarter end PE ratio stands at 16.79 times. Click here for Q4 report: Major Highlights:   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has published a strong fourth quarter report for FY 2075/76 with stagnant growth of 7.84% in net profit. Nabil Bank profit has increased from Rs 3.98 arba in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2074/75 to Rs 4.29 arba in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2075/76. The bank’s deposit from customers increased by 21.93% to Rs 1.64 kharba and also loans and advances to customers rises by 18.54% to Rs 1.29 kharba till the fourth quarter. The net interest income (core business income) of the bank has increased by 17.15% to Rs 7.33 arba from Rs 6.26 arba of the corresponding quarter. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 3.18 arba as distributable profit after Regulatory Adjustments and PL appropriations which can be utilized in distributing dividends to its shareholders. This means Nabil Bank can distribute maximum 35% (approx.) dividend from this year profit if other regulatory requirements are not required. The bank’s paid up capital stands at Rs 9.01 arba with Rs 14.24 arba as its reserve and surplus. The Non-Performing Loan (NPL) of the bank stands at 0.74% which was 0.55% in corresponding quarter. In the fourth quarter, the EPS of the bank stands at Rs 47.65. The net worth per share stands at Rs 258.06 and the quarter end PE ratio stands at 16.79 times. Click here for Q4 report: Major Highlights:   "
2019-08-02,New Monetary Policy requires all commercial banks to issue minimum 25% of their paid up capital as debentures; look at the amount of debentures investors can expect from each bank,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/new-monetary-policy-requires-all-commercial-banks-to-issue-minimum-25-of-their-paid-up-capital-as-debentures-look-at-the-amount-of-debentures-investors-can-expect-from-each-bank,"As per the new monetary policy for FY 76/77, all commercial banks are required to issue at least 25% of their paid up capital as debentures. Debentures are debt instruments that provide a fixed interest rate to the holder and have a fixed period of maturity. Through issue of debentures, the company raises a debt that is to be repaid within the stipulated time at premium or at par. Using debentures, the company can raise debt from individual and institutional investors by providing attractive interest rates. As for the investors, they can safeguard their investments for a fixed period of time and guarantee fixed returns on their investment. It also protects the investors from fluctuation in the performance of the company. Since, such facility is also provided by fixed deposits of banks, companies issuing debentures can attract more investors by providing competitive rates compared to the interest rate of the fixed deposits. Due to the requirement of the monetary policy, investors can expect a huge amount of debenture issues in the market. While some banks have already passed the minimum threshold requirement, some are yet to make a debut in the debenture market. The following list depicts the amount issued or to be issued by commercial banks as debentures in the coming period. The list takes consideration of the ongoing and upcoming debenture issues by commercial banks. (*Amount in Million)  As we can see, out of 28 commercial banks, 12 banks haven’t issued any debentures yet while only 6 banks have met or passed the minimum threshold requirement. The market has already seen debentures issues worth Rs.42.69 Arba and debentures worth Rs.34.82 Arba are yet to be issued. The highest amount coming from Mega Bank Limited (MEGA) worth Rs.2.59 Arba. Among all commercial banks, NIC Asia Bank (NICA) has issued the highest amount of debentures worth Rs.12.13 Arba coming to be 137.36% of the current paid up capital. Similarly, the lowest has been issued by Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) worth Rs.50 Crore. Out of the total capital of Rs.2.46 Kharba, 17.32% of the capital has been issued as debentures while 14.13% of the capital is to be issued as per the requirements of the new monetary policy. As per the new monetary policy for FY 76/77, all commercial banks are required to issue at least 25% of their paid up capital as debentures. Debentures are debt instruments that provide a fixed interest rate to the holder and have a fixed period of maturity. Through issue of debentures, the company raises a debt that is to be repaid within the stipulated time at premium or at par. Using debentures, the company can raise debt from individual and institutional investors by providing attractive interest rates. As for the investors, they can safeguard their investments for a fixed period of time and guarantee fixed returns on their investment. It also protects the investors from fluctuation in the performance of the company. Since, such facility is also provided by fixed deposits of banks, companies issuing debentures can attract more investors by providing competitive rates compared to the interest rate of the fixed deposits. Due to the requirement of the monetary policy, investors can expect a huge amount of debenture issues in the market. While some banks have already passed the minimum threshold requirement, some are yet to make a debut in the debenture market. The following list depicts the amount issued or to be issued by commercial banks as debentures in the coming period. The list takes consideration of the ongoing and upcoming debenture issues by commercial banks. (*Amount in Million)  As we can see, out of 28 commercial banks, 12 banks haven’t issued any debentures yet while only 6 banks have met or passed the minimum threshold requirement. The market has already seen debentures issues worth Rs.42.69 Arba and debentures worth Rs.34.82 Arba are yet to be issued. The highest amount coming from Mega Bank Limited (MEGA) worth Rs.2.59 Arba. Among all commercial banks, NIC Asia Bank (NICA) has issued the highest amount of debentures worth Rs.12.13 Arba coming to be 137.36% of the current paid up capital. Similarly, the lowest has been issued by Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) worth Rs.50 Crore. Out of the total capital of Rs.2.46 Kharba, 17.32% of the capital has been issued as debentures while 14.13% of the capital is to be issued as per the requirements of the new monetary policy. As per the new monetary policy for FY 76/77, all commercial banks are required to issue at least 25% of their paid up capital as debentures. Debentures are debt instruments that provide a fixed interest rate to the holder and have a fixed period of maturity. Through issue of debentures, the company raises a debt that is to be repaid within the stipulated time at premium or at par. Using debentures, the company can raise debt from individual and institutional investors by providing attractive interest rates. As for the investors, they can safeguard their investments for a fixed period of time and guarantee fixed returns on their investment. It also protects the investors from fluctuation in the performance of the company. Since, such facility is also provided by fixed deposits of banks, companies issuing debentures can attract more investors by providing competitive rates compared to the interest rate of the fixed deposits. Due to the requirement of the monetary policy, investors can expect a huge amount of debenture issues in the market. While some banks have already passed the minimum threshold requirement, some are yet to make a debut in the debenture market. The following list depicts the amount issued or to be issued by commercial banks as debentures in the coming period. The list takes consideration of the ongoing and upcoming debenture issues by commercial banks. (*Amount in Million)  As we can see, out of 28 commercial banks, 12 banks haven’t issued any debentures yet while only 6 banks have met or passed the minimum threshold requirement. The market has already seen debentures issues worth Rs.42.69 Arba and debentures worth Rs.34.82 Arba are yet to be issued. The highest amount coming from Mega Bank Limited (MEGA) worth Rs.2.59 Arba. Among all commercial banks, NIC Asia Bank (NICA) has issued the highest amount of debentures worth Rs.12.13 Arba coming to be 137.36% of the current paid up capital. Similarly, the lowest has been issued by Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) worth Rs.50 Crore. Out of the total capital of Rs.2.46 Kharba, 17.32% of the capital has been issued as debentures while 14.13% of the capital is to be issued as per the requirements of the new monetary policy. "
2019-07-26,Nabil Bank inaugurates new ATM at Lalitpur Metropolitan Office,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inaugurates-new-atm-at-lalitpur-metropolitan-office,"Nabil Bank has installed an ATM at Lalitpur Metropolitan Office which was jointly inaugurated on Shrawan 9 by Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal, Chairman of the Bank and Mr. Chiribabu Maharjan, Mayor of Lalitpur Metropolitan Office.  During the inauguration, Mr. Poudyal said ”We are happy to add new ATM today to make it a network of 138 ATMs in line with our commitment to extend more service outlets to serve our customers. Providing professionalized and efficient banking services and catering banking needs of large and wide spread sections of the society, bank assures all its customers to provide best services at all times”.  Similarly, Mr. Chiribabu Maharjan, Mayor of Lalitpur Metropolitan City said, “The ATM installed by Nabil Bank at our compound will greatly benefit our service seekers and staff members to perform their transaction.” Now, Nabil has 70 ATMs inside Kathmandu Valley and 68 ATMs outside valley. Any cardholder carrying Visa, MasterCard, UnionPay International & SCT card (domestic and international) can avail cash withdrawal and other facilities from the ATMs. Nabil bank is providing its services through a wide domestic network of 79 branches, 138 ATMs, more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe. The Bank believes in moving “Together Ahead” with all its stakeholders. Nabil Bank has installed an ATM at Lalitpur Metropolitan Office which was jointly inaugurated on Shrawan 9 by Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal, Chairman of the Bank and Mr. Chiribabu Maharjan, Mayor of Lalitpur Metropolitan Office.  During the inauguration, Mr. Poudyal said ”We are happy to add new ATM today to make it a network of 138 ATMs in line with our commitment to extend more service outlets to serve our customers. Providing professionalized and efficient banking services and catering banking needs of large and wide spread sections of the society, bank assures all its customers to provide best services at all times”.  Similarly, Mr. Chiribabu Maharjan, Mayor of Lalitpur Metropolitan City said, “The ATM installed by Nabil Bank at our compound will greatly benefit our service seekers and staff members to perform their transaction.” Now, Nabil has 70 ATMs inside Kathmandu Valley and 68 ATMs outside valley. Any cardholder carrying Visa, MasterCard, UnionPay International & SCT card (domestic and international) can avail cash withdrawal and other facilities from the ATMs. Nabil bank is providing its services through a wide domestic network of 79 branches, 138 ATMs, more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe. The Bank believes in moving “Together Ahead” with all its stakeholders. Nabil Bank has installed an ATM at Lalitpur Metropolitan Office which was jointly inaugurated on Shrawan 9 by Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal, Chairman of the Bank and Mr. Chiribabu Maharjan, Mayor of Lalitpur Metropolitan Office.  During the inauguration, Mr. Poudyal said ”We are happy to add new ATM today to make it a network of 138 ATMs in line with our commitment to extend more service outlets to serve our customers. Providing professionalized and efficient banking services and catering banking needs of large and wide spread sections of the society, bank assures all its customers to provide best services at all times”.  Similarly, Mr. Chiribabu Maharjan, Mayor of Lalitpur Metropolitan City said, “The ATM installed by Nabil Bank at our compound will greatly benefit our service seekers and staff members to perform their transaction.” Now, Nabil has 70 ATMs inside Kathmandu Valley and 68 ATMs outside valley. Any cardholder carrying Visa, MasterCard, UnionPay International & SCT card (domestic and international) can avail cash withdrawal and other facilities from the ATMs. Nabil bank is providing its services through a wide domestic network of 79 branches, 138 ATMs, more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe. The Bank believes in moving “Together Ahead” with all its stakeholders. "
2019-07-24,"Aggressive debenture issue is giving opportunity to increase the business, but diminishing the dividend distribution capacity of Bank",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/aggressive-debenture-issue-is-giving-opportunity-to-increase-the-business-but-diminishing-the-dividend-distribution-capacity-of-bank,"Commercial banks, recently, have been issuing debentures very aggressively. The decision of NRB to hike paid up capital of Commercial Banks has increased the equity capital (Core Capital) massively in last 3 years which help banks to lend aggressively. Now most of the bank are using debt capital (debenture) to increase their capital base (Capital Adequacy) to meet their capital requirements and also another reason behind aggressive issue of debenture was the provision introduced by NRB in last monetary policy which allowed banks to consider debenture amount while calculating credit to core capital and deposit (CCD) ratio. Therefore, now the banks can collect more money to disburse loan and advances via debentures, which ultimately helps in increasing the banks’ business and profit. Apart from the interest to the creditors (debenture buyers), banks have to make provision of reserve fund namely ‘capital redemption fund/debenture redemption fund’ each year until refund of debenture at the maturity in not done. This decreases the dividend distributing capacity of companies as the profit available for the distribution is calculated after the deduction of capital redemption fund from Net profit. The table below lists the debentures issued by banks and the amount that needs to be separated for redemption fund. TABLE: NIC Asia Bank (NICA) is in the top of list going very aggressively in debenture issue. It has already issued debentures worth Rs 7.73 billion and the figure of ongoing debenture issue is of Rs 4.40 billion, making a total of Rs 12.13 billion. If we consider ongoing debenture issue into calculation, then NICA will need to transfer approx Rs 1.88 billion to the capital redemption reserve from its profit every year until issued debenture does not mature. This means from the total profit earned, the investors will be getting Rs 1.88 billion less in return. In general, any bank need to transfer total debenture issue/ number of years in the capital redemption reserve, from which the bank can distribute profit only after the maturity of that particular debenture to its shareholders. Till date, the commercial banks have already issued debentures worth Rs 38.84 billion. Similarly, new debentures worth Rs 5.5 billion will be issued in the near future making total of Rs 44.34 billion in corporate debentures. However, this money doesn’t come for free. Banks need to pay periodic interest on debentures, which is the cost of capital. So, in total profits worth few billion will be transferred to capital redemption reserve. Therefore, before making investment in any bank, investor should carefully look into the profit available for distribution after the transfer of profit to the capital redemption fund as it determines how much investor will be getting as the return. Likewise, there are also a list of commercial banks who haven’t issued any debentures yet. They are: Commercial banks, recently, have been issuing debentures very aggressively. The decision of NRB to hike paid up capital of Commercial Banks has increased the equity capital (Core Capital) massively in last 3 years which help banks to lend aggressively. Now most of the bank are using debt capital (debenture) to increase their capital base (Capital Adequacy) to meet their capital requirements and also another reason behind aggressive issue of debenture was the provision introduced by NRB in last monetary policy which allowed banks to consider debenture amount while calculating credit to core capital and deposit (CCD) ratio. Therefore, now the banks can collect more money to disburse loan and advances via debentures, which ultimately helps in increasing the banks’ business and profit. Apart from the interest to the creditors (debenture buyers), banks have to make provision of reserve fund namely ‘capital redemption fund/debenture redemption fund’ each year until refund of debenture at the maturity in not done. This decreases the dividend distributing capacity of companies as the profit available for the distribution is calculated after the deduction of capital redemption fund from Net profit. The table below lists the debentures issued by banks and the amount that needs to be separated for redemption fund. TABLE: NIC Asia Bank (NICA) is in the top of list going very aggressively in debenture issue. It has already issued debentures worth Rs 7.73 billion and the figure of ongoing debenture issue is of Rs 4.40 billion, making a total of Rs 12.13 billion. If we consider ongoing debenture issue into calculation, then NICA will need to transfer approx Rs 1.88 billion to the capital redemption reserve from its profit every year until issued debenture does not mature. This means from the total profit earned, the investors will be getting Rs 1.88 billion less in return. In general, any bank need to transfer total debenture issue/ number of years in the capital redemption reserve, from which the bank can distribute profit only after the maturity of that particular debenture to its shareholders. Till date, the commercial banks have already issued debentures worth Rs 38.84 billion. Similarly, new debentures worth Rs 5.5 billion will be issued in the near future making total of Rs 44.34 billion in corporate debentures. However, this money doesn’t come for free. Banks need to pay periodic interest on debentures, which is the cost of capital. So, in total profits worth few billion will be transferred to capital redemption reserve. Therefore, before making investment in any bank, investor should carefully look into the profit available for distribution after the transfer of profit to the capital redemption fund as it determines how much investor will be getting as the return. Likewise, there are also a list of commercial banks who haven’t issued any debentures yet. They are: Commercial banks, recently, have been issuing debentures very aggressively. The decision of NRB to hike paid up capital of Commercial Banks has increased the equity capital (Core Capital) massively in last 3 years which help banks to lend aggressively. Now most of the bank are using debt capital (debenture) to increase their capital base (Capital Adequacy) to meet their capital requirements and also another reason behind aggressive issue of debenture was the provision introduced by NRB in last monetary policy which allowed banks to consider debenture amount while calculating credit to core capital and deposit (CCD) ratio. Therefore, now the banks can collect more money to disburse loan and advances via debentures, which ultimately helps in increasing the banks’ business and profit. Apart from the interest to the creditors (debenture buyers), banks have to make provision of reserve fund namely ‘capital redemption fund/debenture redemption fund’ each year until refund of debenture at the maturity in not done. This decreases the dividend distributing capacity of companies as the profit available for the distribution is calculated after the deduction of capital redemption fund from Net profit. The table below lists the debentures issued by banks and the amount that needs to be separated for redemption fund. TABLE: NIC Asia Bank (NICA) is in the top of list going very aggressively in debenture issue. It has already issued debentures worth Rs 7.73 billion and the figure of ongoing debenture issue is of Rs 4.40 billion, making a total of Rs 12.13 billion. If we consider ongoing debenture issue into calculation, then NICA will need to transfer approx Rs 1.88 billion to the capital redemption reserve from its profit every year until issued debenture does not mature. This means from the total profit earned, the investors will be getting Rs 1.88 billion less in return. In general, any bank need to transfer total debenture issue/ number of years in the capital redemption reserve, from which the bank can distribute profit only after the maturity of that particular debenture to its shareholders. Till date, the commercial banks have already issued debentures worth Rs 38.84 billion. Similarly, new debentures worth Rs 5.5 billion will be issued in the near future making total of Rs 44.34 billion in corporate debentures. However, this money doesn’t come for free. Banks need to pay periodic interest on debentures, which is the cost of capital. So, in total profits worth few billion will be transferred to capital redemption reserve. Therefore, before making investment in any bank, investor should carefully look into the profit available for distribution after the transfer of profit to the capital redemption fund as it determines how much investor will be getting as the return. Likewise, there are also a list of commercial banks who haven’t issued any debentures yet. They are: "
2019-07-23,Nepal Rastra Bank publishes 11 months report for commercial banks; find out which bank stands where,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nepal-rastra-bank-publishes-11-months-report-for-commercial-banks-find-out-which-bank-stands-where,"Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB), the central bank and regulator of Bank and Financial Institution, has published a report showcasing the financial progress of the commercial banks in the last 11 months of the financial year 2075/76. DEPOSITS According to the report, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) leads in total deposits collected from its customer with Rs 184.5 billion followed by NIC Asia Bank (NICA) and Nabil Bank (NABIL) which posted deposits of Rs 172.7 billion and Rs 160.3 billion respectively. Only these three banks crossed the milestone of Rs 150 billion deposits while other lagged behind. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) collected the least deposits followed by Nepal Bangladesh Bank (NBB) and Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL).  LOANS AND ADVANCES Similarly, NIC Asia Bank has lend highest amount of loans (Rs 152.7 billion) followed by Rastriya Banijya Bank (Rs 143.5 billion) and Nabil Bank (Rs 130.3 billion). It is interesting to note that Civil Bank Limited has granted loan in excess of the deposits collected. Its loan to deposit ratio stands at 104%; while the same for Nepal Bangladesh Bank and Kumari Bank stands at 99%.  NET PROFIT In terms of Profit earned by the banks, Rastriya Banijya Bank tops the table with profit of Rs 5.2 billion followed by Nabil Bank (Rs 3.9 billion) and Nepal Investment Bank (Rs 3.3 billion). Civil Bank (Rs 0.62 billion) and Century Commercial Bank (Rs 0.81 billion) are ranked at the bottom, after failing to achieve 1 billion profit in the 11 months.  EARNINGS PER SHARE Amongst the listed commercial banks, Nabil Bank, NIC Asia and Everest Bank had highest Earning per Share (EPS) at Rs 47.7, Rs 37.8 and Rs 37.6 respectively. Similarly, as per July 22nd market price and annualized EPS, Prime Commercial has the lowest price to earnings ratio (PE) of 10.7.  Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB), the central bank and regulator of Bank and Financial Institution, has published a report showcasing the financial progress of the commercial banks in the last 11 months of the financial year 2075/76. DEPOSITS According to the report, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) leads in total deposits collected from its customer with Rs 184.5 billion followed by NIC Asia Bank (NICA) and Nabil Bank (NABIL) which posted deposits of Rs 172.7 billion and Rs 160.3 billion respectively. Only these three banks crossed the milestone of Rs 150 billion deposits while other lagged behind. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) collected the least deposits followed by Nepal Bangladesh Bank (NBB) and Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL).  LOANS AND ADVANCES Similarly, NIC Asia Bank has lend highest amount of loans (Rs 152.7 billion) followed by Rastriya Banijya Bank (Rs 143.5 billion) and Nabil Bank (Rs 130.3 billion). It is interesting to note that Civil Bank Limited has granted loan in excess of the deposits collected. Its loan to deposit ratio stands at 104%; while the same for Nepal Bangladesh Bank and Kumari Bank stands at 99%.  NET PROFIT In terms of Profit earned by the banks, Rastriya Banijya Bank tops the table with profit of Rs 5.2 billion followed by Nabil Bank (Rs 3.9 billion) and Nepal Investment Bank (Rs 3.3 billion). Civil Bank (Rs 0.62 billion) and Century Commercial Bank (Rs 0.81 billion) are ranked at the bottom, after failing to achieve 1 billion profit in the 11 months.  EARNINGS PER SHARE Amongst the listed commercial banks, Nabil Bank, NIC Asia and Everest Bank had highest Earning per Share (EPS) at Rs 47.7, Rs 37.8 and Rs 37.6 respectively. Similarly, as per July 22nd market price and annualized EPS, Prime Commercial has the lowest price to earnings ratio (PE) of 10.7.  Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB), the central bank and regulator of Bank and Financial Institution, has published a report showcasing the financial progress of the commercial banks in the last 11 months of the financial year 2075/76. DEPOSITS According to the report, Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited (RBB) leads in total deposits collected from its customer with Rs 184.5 billion followed by NIC Asia Bank (NICA) and Nabil Bank (NABIL) which posted deposits of Rs 172.7 billion and Rs 160.3 billion respectively. Only these three banks crossed the milestone of Rs 150 billion deposits while other lagged behind. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) collected the least deposits followed by Nepal Bangladesh Bank (NBB) and Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL).  LOANS AND ADVANCES Similarly, NIC Asia Bank has lend highest amount of loans (Rs 152.7 billion) followed by Rastriya Banijya Bank (Rs 143.5 billion) and Nabil Bank (Rs 130.3 billion). It is interesting to note that Civil Bank Limited has granted loan in excess of the deposits collected. Its loan to deposit ratio stands at 104%; while the same for Nepal Bangladesh Bank and Kumari Bank stands at 99%.  NET PROFIT In terms of Profit earned by the banks, Rastriya Banijya Bank tops the table with profit of Rs 5.2 billion followed by Nabil Bank (Rs 3.9 billion) and Nepal Investment Bank (Rs 3.3 billion). Civil Bank (Rs 0.62 billion) and Century Commercial Bank (Rs 0.81 billion) are ranked at the bottom, after failing to achieve 1 billion profit in the 11 months.  EARNINGS PER SHARE Amongst the listed commercial banks, Nabil Bank, NIC Asia and Everest Bank had highest Earning per Share (EPS) at Rs 47.7, Rs 37.8 and Rs 37.6 respectively. Similarly, as per July 22nd market price and annualized EPS, Prime Commercial has the lowest price to earnings ratio (PE) of 10.7.  "
2019-07-22,Nabil Bank conducts Blood donation program; 122 staff member donated blood to commemorate bank’s 35th anniversary,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-conducts-blood-donation-program-122-staff-member-donated-blood-to-commemorate-banks-35th-anniversary,"On the occasion of Nabil bank’s 35th anniversary, Nabil Bank has organized blood donation program on July 20, 2019. A total of 122 employees donated their blood at an event held in the Bank’s Head Office premise. Grande International Hospital appreciated the effort of Nabil Bank for the contribution made in support of current blood crisis situation in the country.  Likewise, Nabil Bank conducted prize distribution ceremony to award the winners of Intra Bank Futsal, Cricket, Badminton, Snooker and Chess tournaments which were conducted in the previous weeks to mark Bank’s 35th anniversary. Bank’s Chairman, Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal expressed happiness and congratulated all board members and staffs for their par taking in various activities on the occasion of Bank’s successful 35 years of operation On the occasion of Nabil bank’s 35th anniversary, Nabil Bank has organized blood donation program on July 20, 2019. A total of 122 employees donated their blood at an event held in the Bank’s Head Office premise. Grande International Hospital appreciated the effort of Nabil Bank for the contribution made in support of current blood crisis situation in the country.  Likewise, Nabil Bank conducted prize distribution ceremony to award the winners of Intra Bank Futsal, Cricket, Badminton, Snooker and Chess tournaments which were conducted in the previous weeks to mark Bank’s 35th anniversary. Bank’s Chairman, Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal expressed happiness and congratulated all board members and staffs for their par taking in various activities on the occasion of Bank’s successful 35 years of operation On the occasion of Nabil bank’s 35th anniversary, Nabil Bank has organized blood donation program on July 20, 2019. A total of 122 employees donated their blood at an event held in the Bank’s Head Office premise. Grande International Hospital appreciated the effort of Nabil Bank for the contribution made in support of current blood crisis situation in the country.  Likewise, Nabil Bank conducted prize distribution ceremony to award the winners of Intra Bank Futsal, Cricket, Badminton, Snooker and Chess tournaments which were conducted in the previous weeks to mark Bank’s 35th anniversary. Bank’s Chairman, Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal expressed happiness and congratulated all board members and staffs for their par taking in various activities on the occasion of Bank’s successful 35 years of operation "
2019-07-19,Look at the detailed overview and past performance of one of the leading commercial banks: Nabil Bank Limited,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/look-at-the-detailed-overview-and-past-performance-of-one-of-the-leading-commercial-banks-nabil-bank-limited,"SYMBOL: NABIL SECTOR: COMMERCIAL BANK TOTAL LISTED SHARES: 90,084,075 (Promoter: Public = 60:40) INTRODUCTION: Nabil Bank Limited (previously known as Nepal Arab Bank Limited) is the nation’s first private sector bank, commencing its business since July 1984. Nabil was incorporated with the objective of extending international standard modern banking services to various sectors of the society. Nabil, as a pioneer in introducing many innovative products and marketing concepts in the domestic banking sector, represents a milestone in the banking history of Nepal as it started an era of modern banking with customer satisfaction measured as a focal objective while doing business. Nabil is moving forward with a Mission to be “1st Choice Provider of Complete Financial Solutions” for all its stakeholders; Customers, Shareholders, Regulators, Communities and Staff.   (As per Bank's website) BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Mr. Anil Keshary Shah Mr. Shah started his banking journey as a teller at Nepal Grindlays Bank (later Standard Chartered Bank Nepal). Later he became Head of Consumer Banking and Chief Operating Officer at the same bank, after which he moved to Nabil Bank where he was appointed as the CEO after a year. Later he became the CEO of new venture, Mega Bank, before moving again to Nabil Bank. He is also known for his motivational talks among youths. FINANCIAL INDICATORS Source: Annual and Quarterly Reports, (*Profit Ratio, EPS, ROA, ROE are annualized) FACTS AND FIGURES      Note: All the data plotted in the figures above for the last period 2018/19 include only 9 months data (up to Chaitra of 2075), due to which profit seems to be lowered compared to other years. However, based on the third quartile profit, the annualized profit and CAGR would be Rs. 4,254,761,333.3 and15% respectively. KEY INDICATORS V/S INDUSTRY   (Source: SS Pro) PRICE HISTORY OF NABIL SINCE JULY 2015  Highest Trading Price: Rs 2,794 Lowest Trading Price: Rs 678 Highest Closing Price: Rs 2,700 Lowest Closing Price: Rs 682 52 Week High: Rs 984 52 Week Low: Rs 678 DIVIDEND HISTORY  MONTHLY STOCK OUTLOOK  (Source: SS Pro) Based on its stock performance since 2011, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has closed higher in 88.89 % of July months. In terms of price change, it has gained the most (10.56 % on average) in April month. MEASUREMENT OF INVESTMENT RISK (VaR)  SYSTEMATIC RISK (β)  With double digit Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) on various parameters like deposits, loans, total assets, and profit, Nabil Bank is still going strong in the industry even after 35 years of its operation. It is the industry leader in Earning per Share (EPS) and is second to Nepal Bank Limited in terms of Networth per share. Though PEG ratio and Graham number suggest overvaluation of Nabil Bank's stock price, lucrative dividend declaration and strong fundamentals have always attracted investors to purchase its shares. SYMBOL: NABIL SECTOR: COMMERCIAL BANK TOTAL LISTED SHARES: 90,084,075 (Promoter: Public = 60:40) INTRODUCTION: Nabil Bank Limited (previously known as Nepal Arab Bank Limited) is the nation’s first private sector bank, commencing its business since July 1984. Nabil was incorporated with the objective of extending international standard modern banking services to various sectors of the society. Nabil, as a pioneer in introducing many innovative products and marketing concepts in the domestic banking sector, represents a milestone in the banking history of Nepal as it started an era of modern banking with customer satisfaction measured as a focal objective while doing business. Nabil is moving forward with a Mission to be “1st Choice Provider of Complete Financial Solutions” for all its stakeholders; Customers, Shareholders, Regulators, Communities and Staff.   (As per Bank's website) BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Mr. Anil Keshary Shah Mr. Shah started his banking journey as a teller at Nepal Grindlays Bank (later Standard Chartered Bank Nepal). Later he became Head of Consumer Banking and Chief Operating Officer at the same bank, after which he moved to Nabil Bank where he was appointed as the CEO after a year. Later he became the CEO of new venture, Mega Bank, before moving again to Nabil Bank. He is also known for his motivational talks among youths. FINANCIAL INDICATORS Source: Annual and Quarterly Reports, (*Profit Ratio, EPS, ROA, ROE are annualized) FACTS AND FIGURES      Note: All the data plotted in the figures above for the last period 2018/19 include only 9 months data (up to Chaitra of 2075), due to which profit seems to be lowered compared to other years. However, based on the third quartile profit, the annualized profit and CAGR would be Rs. 4,254,761,333.3 and15% respectively. KEY INDICATORS V/S INDUSTRY   (Source: SS Pro) PRICE HISTORY OF NABIL SINCE JULY 2015  Highest Trading Price: Rs 2,794 Lowest Trading Price: Rs 678 Highest Closing Price: Rs 2,700 Lowest Closing Price: Rs 682 52 Week High: Rs 984 52 Week Low: Rs 678 DIVIDEND HISTORY  MONTHLY STOCK OUTLOOK  (Source: SS Pro) Based on its stock performance since 2011, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has closed higher in 88.89 % of July months. In terms of price change, it has gained the most (10.56 % on average) in April month. MEASUREMENT OF INVESTMENT RISK (VaR)  SYSTEMATIC RISK (β)  With double digit Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) on various parameters like deposits, loans, total assets, and profit, Nabil Bank is still going strong in the industry even after 35 years of its operation. It is the industry leader in Earning per Share (EPS) and is second to Nepal Bank Limited in terms of Networth per share. Though PEG ratio and Graham number suggest overvaluation of Nabil Bank's stock price, lucrative dividend declaration and strong fundamentals have always attracted investors to purchase its shares. SYMBOL: NABIL SECTOR: COMMERCIAL BANK TOTAL LISTED SHARES: 90,084,075 (Promoter: Public = 60:40) INTRODUCTION: Nabil Bank Limited (previously known as Nepal Arab Bank Limited) is the nation’s first private sector bank, commencing its business since July 1984. Nabil was incorporated with the objective of extending international standard modern banking services to various sectors of the society. Nabil, as a pioneer in introducing many innovative products and marketing concepts in the domestic banking sector, represents a milestone in the banking history of Nepal as it started an era of modern banking with customer satisfaction measured as a focal objective while doing business. Nabil is moving forward with a Mission to be “1st Choice Provider of Complete Financial Solutions” for all its stakeholders; Customers, Shareholders, Regulators, Communities and Staff.   (As per Bank's website) BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Mr. Anil Keshary Shah Mr. Shah started his banking journey as a teller at Nepal Grindlays Bank (later Standard Chartered Bank Nepal). Later he became Head of Consumer Banking and Chief Operating Officer at the same bank, after which he moved to Nabil Bank where he was appointed as the CEO after a year. Later he became the CEO of new venture, Mega Bank, before moving again to Nabil Bank. He is also known for his motivational talks among youths. FINANCIAL INDICATORS Source: Annual and Quarterly Reports, (*Profit Ratio, EPS, ROA, ROE are annualized) FACTS AND FIGURES      Note: All the data plotted in the figures above for the last period 2018/19 include only 9 months data (up to Chaitra of 2075), due to which profit seems to be lowered compared to other years. However, based on the third quartile profit, the annualized profit and CAGR would be Rs. 4,254,761,333.3 and15% respectively. KEY INDICATORS V/S INDUSTRY   (Source: SS Pro) PRICE HISTORY OF NABIL SINCE JULY 2015  Highest Trading Price: Rs 2,794 Lowest Trading Price: Rs 678 Highest Closing Price: Rs 2,700 Lowest Closing Price: Rs 682 52 Week High: Rs 984 52 Week Low: Rs 678 DIVIDEND HISTORY  MONTHLY STOCK OUTLOOK  (Source: SS Pro) Based on its stock performance since 2011, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has closed higher in 88.89 % of July months. In terms of price change, it has gained the most (10.56 % on average) in April month. MEASUREMENT OF INVESTMENT RISK (VaR)  SYSTEMATIC RISK (β)  With double digit Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) on various parameters like deposits, loans, total assets, and profit, Nabil Bank is still going strong in the industry even after 35 years of its operation. It is the industry leader in Earning per Share (EPS) and is second to Nepal Bank Limited in terms of Networth per share. Though PEG ratio and Graham number suggest overvaluation of Nabil Bank's stock price, lucrative dividend declaration and strong fundamentals have always attracted investors to purchase its shares. "
2019-07-17,Sector Wise Dividend distribution in fiscal year 2074/75: Most Companies distributed bonus share but few of them pay cash dividend for tax on bonus share,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/sector-wise-dividend-distribution-in-fiscal-year-207475-most-companies-distributed-bonus-share-but-few-of-them-pay-cash-dividend-for-tax-on-bonus-share,"Almost 131 companies from different sector distributed dividend from the profit of fiscal year 2074/75. The dividends have been distributed in the form of cash dividend and bonus share. As always Unilever Nepal, a subsidiary of Hindustan Unilever, is in the top of list of dividend distributing company in 2074/75 giving 700% cash dividend. In order to increase the paid up capital of the company and to make company stronger, many companies distributed bonus share from the profit. While distributing bonus share investors have to face a trouble of paying tax on their own. There is no problem when company pays cash dividend, because an organization already deduct the tax and pay on behalf of investor. But when company pays bonus share, either the company should distribute cash dividend together with bonus share for tax purposes or investors need to visit offices by carrying additional money for tax to exercise bonus share. This is being a hectic task for investor. However many companies make the investors’ task easy by paying cash dividend with bonus share. Following are the sector wise list of companies who have distributed the dividend in fiscal year 2074/75: In addition, highlighted companies are the one who have asked investors to pay additional tax on their own to exercise bonus share. Commercial Bank
Nepal Investment Bank was top dividend paying company followed by Nabil Bank. Both the banks distributed bonus share and paid cash dividend for the tax paying purpose. But Global IME bank made their investor to pay additional money for the tax on bonus share. And in case of Prime Bank, the company has neither endorsed any cash dividend for bonus share tax purpose and nor listed its bonus share in NEPSE so far.    Development banks
Most companies under this sector distributed bonus share. However every bank made investor task easy by paying cash dividend for tax purposes on bonus shares.   Finance Companies
Among finance companies Srijana Finance company Limited was the top dividend paying company which paid 24.5% total dividend including 15% bonus share.   Hotel Industries
Less companies are listed on NEPSE from hotel industry, but every company pays cash dividend for tax purposes.   Hydro Energy Sector
In hydro energy sector Api Power Company limited distributed bonus share. But there is no such record of distribution of cash dividend for tax purposes on that bonus share.   Life Insurance
Nepal Life Insurance Company Limited is one of the highest cash dividend providing companies and top dividend payer in insurance industry.   Manufacturing Industry
In manufacturing industry almost all the companies paid cash dividend only except Nepal Lube Oil Limited who provides 10% bonus share and 30% cash dividend. Cash dividend also includes tax on bonus share and cash dividend.   Merged Companies   Micro Finance Institution
Huge number of companies are listed in NEPSE from the microfinance sector. Among all dividend distributing companies around 45% of the companies paid addition cash dividend for the bonus share. This industry significantly exercised the system of providing cash dividend for tax purposes.   Mutual Fund
Mutual fund is another industries where the companies do not distribute bonus share. They only paid cash dividend.   Non-life insurance
In non-life insurance sector almost every company except Neco Insurance Company Limited requested its investors to pay tax on their own. Therefore investor in this sector are in trouble of paying tax on bonus share.   Others
Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited, government invested organization of Nepal, has distributed 55% cash dividend from the profit of fiscal year 2074/75.   Trading
Finally, Salt Trading Corporation Limited has distributed 35% total dividend. 25% of which is bonus share and for the purpose of tax on bonus share it has also paid cash dividend of 10%.   Every Investor invests in the companies to earn a profit/gain. The gain might be capital gain or in the form of dividends. Nepalese companies whichever listed in the NEPSE are also very efficient, as they are providing significant amount of dividend to the shareholders. In recent past year/s bank and financial institutions (BFIs) are providing bonus share in order to increase the capital of organization. In such situation BFIs should not put their investor into trouble to make them pay tax on their own, rather they should exercise the system of providing cash dividend for tax purposes.
  Almost 131 companies from different sector distributed dividend from the profit of fiscal year 2074/75. The dividends have been distributed in the form of cash dividend and bonus share. As always Unilever Nepal, a subsidiary of Hindustan Unilever, is in the top of list of dividend distributing company in 2074/75 giving 700% cash dividend. In order to increase the paid up capital of the company and to make company stronger, many companies distributed bonus share from the profit. While distributing bonus share investors have to face a trouble of paying tax on their own. There is no problem when company pays cash dividend, because an organization already deduct the tax and pay on behalf of investor. But when company pays bonus share, either the company should distribute cash dividend together with bonus share for tax purposes or investors need to visit offices by carrying additional money for tax to exercise bonus share. This is being a hectic task for investor. However many companies make the investors’ task easy by paying cash dividend with bonus share. Following are the sector wise list of companies who have distributed the dividend in fiscal year 2074/75: In addition, highlighted companies are the one who have asked investors to pay additional tax on their own to exercise bonus share. Commercial Bank
Nepal Investment Bank was top dividend paying company followed by Nabil Bank. Both the banks distributed bonus share and paid cash dividend for the tax paying purpose. But Global IME bank made their investor to pay additional money for the tax on bonus share. And in case of Prime Bank, the company has neither endorsed any cash dividend for bonus share tax purpose and nor listed its bonus share in NEPSE so far.    Development banks
Most companies under this sector distributed bonus share. However every bank made investor task easy by paying cash dividend for tax purposes on bonus shares.   Finance Companies
Among finance companies Srijana Finance company Limited was the top dividend paying company which paid 24.5% total dividend including 15% bonus share.   Hotel Industries
Less companies are listed on NEPSE from hotel industry, but every company pays cash dividend for tax purposes.   Hydro Energy Sector
In hydro energy sector Api Power Company limited distributed bonus share. But there is no such record of distribution of cash dividend for tax purposes on that bonus share.   Life Insurance
Nepal Life Insurance Company Limited is one of the highest cash dividend providing companies and top dividend payer in insurance industry.   Manufacturing Industry
In manufacturing industry almost all the companies paid cash dividend only except Nepal Lube Oil Limited who provides 10% bonus share and 30% cash dividend. Cash dividend also includes tax on bonus share and cash dividend.   Merged Companies   Micro Finance Institution
Huge number of companies are listed in NEPSE from the microfinance sector. Among all dividend distributing companies around 45% of the companies paid addition cash dividend for the bonus share. This industry significantly exercised the system of providing cash dividend for tax purposes.   Mutual Fund
Mutual fund is another industries where the companies do not distribute bonus share. They only paid cash dividend.   Non-life insurance
In non-life insurance sector almost every company except Neco Insurance Company Limited requested its investors to pay tax on their own. Therefore investor in this sector are in trouble of paying tax on bonus share.   Others
Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited, government invested organization of Nepal, has distributed 55% cash dividend from the profit of fiscal year 2074/75.   Trading
Finally, Salt Trading Corporation Limited has distributed 35% total dividend. 25% of which is bonus share and for the purpose of tax on bonus share it has also paid cash dividend of 10%.   Every Investor invests in the companies to earn a profit/gain. The gain might be capital gain or in the form of dividends. Nepalese companies whichever listed in the NEPSE are also very efficient, as they are providing significant amount of dividend to the shareholders. In recent past year/s bank and financial institutions (BFIs) are providing bonus share in order to increase the capital of organization. In such situation BFIs should not put their investor into trouble to make them pay tax on their own, rather they should exercise the system of providing cash dividend for tax purposes.
  Almost 131 companies from different sector distributed dividend from the profit of fiscal year 2074/75. The dividends have been distributed in the form of cash dividend and bonus share. As always Unilever Nepal, a subsidiary of Hindustan Unilever, is in the top of list of dividend distributing company in 2074/75 giving 700% cash dividend. In order to increase the paid up capital of the company and to make company stronger, many companies distributed bonus share from the profit. While distributing bonus share investors have to face a trouble of paying tax on their own. There is no problem when company pays cash dividend, because an organization already deduct the tax and pay on behalf of investor. But when company pays bonus share, either the company should distribute cash dividend together with bonus share for tax purposes or investors need to visit offices by carrying additional money for tax to exercise bonus share. This is being a hectic task for investor. However many companies make the investors’ task easy by paying cash dividend with bonus share. Following are the sector wise list of companies who have distributed the dividend in fiscal year 2074/75: In addition, highlighted companies are the one who have asked investors to pay additional tax on their own to exercise bonus share. Commercial Bank
Nepal Investment Bank was top dividend paying company followed by Nabil Bank. Both the banks distributed bonus share and paid cash dividend for the tax paying purpose. But Global IME bank made their investor to pay additional money for the tax on bonus share. And in case of Prime Bank, the company has neither endorsed any cash dividend for bonus share tax purpose and nor listed its bonus share in NEPSE so far.    Development banks
Most companies under this sector distributed bonus share. However every bank made investor task easy by paying cash dividend for tax purposes on bonus shares.   Finance Companies
Among finance companies Srijana Finance company Limited was the top dividend paying company which paid 24.5% total dividend including 15% bonus share.   Hotel Industries
Less companies are listed on NEPSE from hotel industry, but every company pays cash dividend for tax purposes.   Hydro Energy Sector
In hydro energy sector Api Power Company limited distributed bonus share. But there is no such record of distribution of cash dividend for tax purposes on that bonus share.   Life Insurance
Nepal Life Insurance Company Limited is one of the highest cash dividend providing companies and top dividend payer in insurance industry.   Manufacturing Industry
In manufacturing industry almost all the companies paid cash dividend only except Nepal Lube Oil Limited who provides 10% bonus share and 30% cash dividend. Cash dividend also includes tax on bonus share and cash dividend.   Merged Companies   Micro Finance Institution
Huge number of companies are listed in NEPSE from the microfinance sector. Among all dividend distributing companies around 45% of the companies paid addition cash dividend for the bonus share. This industry significantly exercised the system of providing cash dividend for tax purposes.   Mutual Fund
Mutual fund is another industries where the companies do not distribute bonus share. They only paid cash dividend.   Non-life insurance
In non-life insurance sector almost every company except Neco Insurance Company Limited requested its investors to pay tax on their own. Therefore investor in this sector are in trouble of paying tax on bonus share.   Others
Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited, government invested organization of Nepal, has distributed 55% cash dividend from the profit of fiscal year 2074/75.   Trading
Finally, Salt Trading Corporation Limited has distributed 35% total dividend. 25% of which is bonus share and for the purpose of tax on bonus share it has also paid cash dividend of 10%.   Every Investor invests in the companies to earn a profit/gain. The gain might be capital gain or in the form of dividends. Nepalese companies whichever listed in the NEPSE are also very efficient, as they are providing significant amount of dividend to the shareholders. In recent past year/s bank and financial institutions (BFIs) are providing bonus share in order to increase the capital of organization. In such situation BFIs should not put their investor into trouble to make them pay tax on their own, rather they should exercise the system of providing cash dividend for tax purposes.
  "
2019-07-17,11.20 crore units of Nabil Balance Fund 2 has been listed on NEPSE for trading,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/1120-crore-units-of-nabil-balance-fund-2-has-been-listed-on-nepse-for-trading,"11,20,00,000 units of Nabil Balance Fund 2 worth Rs 1.12 arba has been listed on Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE) from today. Nabil Balance Fund II, managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited and sponsored by Nabil Bank Limited had floated public issue of 11.20 crore units mutual fund scheme worth Rs 1.12 arba on Baisakh 5, 2076. Nabil Balance Fund II is the Nabil Investment Banking Limited third mutual fund scheme, and is a 10-years closed-end fund.   11,20,00,000 units of Nabil Balance Fund 2 worth Rs 1.12 arba has been listed on Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE) from today. Nabil Balance Fund II, managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited and sponsored by Nabil Bank Limited had floated public issue of 11.20 crore units mutual fund scheme worth Rs 1.12 arba on Baisakh 5, 2076. Nabil Balance Fund II is the Nabil Investment Banking Limited third mutual fund scheme, and is a 10-years closed-end fund.   11,20,00,000 units of Nabil Balance Fund 2 worth Rs 1.12 arba has been listed on Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE) from today. Nabil Balance Fund II, managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited and sponsored by Nabil Bank Limited had floated public issue of 11.20 crore units mutual fund scheme worth Rs 1.12 arba on Baisakh 5, 2076. Nabil Balance Fund II is the Nabil Investment Banking Limited third mutual fund scheme, and is a 10-years closed-end fund.   "
2019-07-16,Nabil Bank conducts tree plantation and cleaning program alongside Bagmati river belt at Minbhawan,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-conducts-tree-plantation-and-cleaning-program-alongside-bagmati-river-belt-at-minbhawan,"In line to mark Bank’s 35th anniversary, Nabil Bank has conducted a tree plantation and cleaning program alongside of Bagmati river belt, Minbhawan on July 13, 2019 with a view to conserving environment and maintaining greenery. The tree plantation was initially done during July 2014 in this area on the occasion of bank’s 30th anniversary and since then Bank has been continuously maintaining this plantation site.   In continuation to various intra bank sports tournaments organized in the previous weeks, the plantation and cleaning event was celebrated to mark bank’s successful 35 years of operation. Bank’s Chairman, Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal expressed happiness and congratulated all board members and staffs for their par taking in various social events on the occasion of Bank’s successful 35 years of operation. In line to mark Bank’s 35th anniversary, Nabil Bank has conducted a tree plantation and cleaning program alongside of Bagmati river belt, Minbhawan on July 13, 2019 with a view to conserving environment and maintaining greenery. The tree plantation was initially done during July 2014 in this area on the occasion of bank’s 30th anniversary and since then Bank has been continuously maintaining this plantation site.   In continuation to various intra bank sports tournaments organized in the previous weeks, the plantation and cleaning event was celebrated to mark bank’s successful 35 years of operation. Bank’s Chairman, Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal expressed happiness and congratulated all board members and staffs for their par taking in various social events on the occasion of Bank’s successful 35 years of operation. In line to mark Bank’s 35th anniversary, Nabil Bank has conducted a tree plantation and cleaning program alongside of Bagmati river belt, Minbhawan on July 13, 2019 with a view to conserving environment and maintaining greenery. The tree plantation was initially done during July 2014 in this area on the occasion of bank’s 30th anniversary and since then Bank has been continuously maintaining this plantation site.   In continuation to various intra bank sports tournaments organized in the previous weeks, the plantation and cleaning event was celebrated to mark bank’s successful 35 years of operation. Bank’s Chairman, Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudyal expressed happiness and congratulated all board members and staffs for their par taking in various social events on the occasion of Bank’s successful 35 years of operation. "
2019-07-15,Nabil Bank felicitates its staff members for their contribution for more than 25 years,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-felicitates-its-staff-members-for-their-contribution-for-more-than-25-years,"On the occasion of Nabil Bank’s 35th anniversary, the Bank has felicitated its staff members and ex-staff members who have continuously contributed their service in the bank for more than 25 years. Bank’s Chairman Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudel presented a memento to commemorate the staffs contribution in an event held on July 12, 2019.   The retired as well as currently working staff members associated with the bank for more than 25 years were honored for their long term contribution. During this exclusive program, former Chairman, the current Directors of the Board, Directors who served in the bank earlier Boards, CEO and former CEO were present. On the occasion of Nabil Bank’s 35th anniversary, the Bank has felicitated its staff members and ex-staff members who have continuously contributed their service in the bank for more than 25 years. Bank’s Chairman Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudel presented a memento to commemorate the staffs contribution in an event held on July 12, 2019.   The retired as well as currently working staff members associated with the bank for more than 25 years were honored for their long term contribution. During this exclusive program, former Chairman, the current Directors of the Board, Directors who served in the bank earlier Boards, CEO and former CEO were present. On the occasion of Nabil Bank’s 35th anniversary, the Bank has felicitated its staff members and ex-staff members who have continuously contributed their service in the bank for more than 25 years. Bank’s Chairman Mr. Shambhu Prasad Poudel presented a memento to commemorate the staffs contribution in an event held on July 12, 2019.   The retired as well as currently working staff members associated with the bank for more than 25 years were honored for their long term contribution. During this exclusive program, former Chairman, the current Directors of the Board, Directors who served in the bank earlier Boards, CEO and former CEO were present. "
2019-07-10,Nabil Bank provides financial Support of Rs 1 lakh to Burn Violence Survivors,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-provides-financial-support-of-rs-1-lakh-to-burn-violence-survivors,"As a part of corporate social responsibility, Nabil Bank has handed over financial support worth Rs. 1 lakh to Burns Violence Survivors- Nepal (BVS Nepal) on July 4, 2019. The provided support will be used to provide medical and surgical support, nutritional supplement, counseling support and physiotherapy program.  Since its establishment, BVS Nepal has provided medical and surgical support to over 510 burns patients who were facing difficulties to meet the cost of treatment and rehabilitation due to their deprived condition. Mr Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank who handed over the support to BVS Nepal expressed satisfaction on being able to contribute to such a noble cause. As a part of Corporate Social Responsibility, Nabil Bank is continuously committed to support the community at large as a small contribution makes a big difference to those in need. As a part of corporate social responsibility, Nabil Bank has handed over financial support worth Rs. 1 lakh to Burns Violence Survivors- Nepal (BVS Nepal) on July 4, 2019. The provided support will be used to provide medical and surgical support, nutritional supplement, counseling support and physiotherapy program.  Since its establishment, BVS Nepal has provided medical and surgical support to over 510 burns patients who were facing difficulties to meet the cost of treatment and rehabilitation due to their deprived condition. Mr Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank who handed over the support to BVS Nepal expressed satisfaction on being able to contribute to such a noble cause. As a part of Corporate Social Responsibility, Nabil Bank is continuously committed to support the community at large as a small contribution makes a big difference to those in need. As a part of corporate social responsibility, Nabil Bank has handed over financial support worth Rs. 1 lakh to Burns Violence Survivors- Nepal (BVS Nepal) on July 4, 2019. The provided support will be used to provide medical and surgical support, nutritional supplement, counseling support and physiotherapy program.  Since its establishment, BVS Nepal has provided medical and surgical support to over 510 burns patients who were facing difficulties to meet the cost of treatment and rehabilitation due to their deprived condition. Mr Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of Nabil Bank who handed over the support to BVS Nepal expressed satisfaction on being able to contribute to such a noble cause. As a part of Corporate Social Responsibility, Nabil Bank is continuously committed to support the community at large as a small contribution makes a big difference to those in need. "
2019-07-09,Conversion of NABIL Promoter Shares into Public will take time of around one week! 90 lakhs shares still frozen!,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/conversion-of-nabil-promoter-shares-into-public-will-take-time-of-around-one-week-90-lakhs-shares-still-frozen,"The auctioned Nabil Promoter shares (NABILP) previously held by NIDC Development Bank has been converted into ordinary shares fully. However, these shares are still not converted in Demat account as NABIL. The spokeperson in CDSC said “the transaction was stopped on Sunday only. It will still take time to settle the transactions of recently traded day. The conversion process will take a week. We hope to get it done by Friday.” On March 19, 2019 Nabil bank published a notice stating that the 10% NABILP shares will be converted into NABIL ordinary shares and any shareholder wishing to remain a promoter shareholder could submit an application to Nabil Bank. Around 90 lakhs of shares of NABILP (to be converted as NABIL public) are frozen. Unlike the promoter shares of other listed companies, Nabil Bank’s promoter shares were freely tradable and lucrative as well, as was eligible for an equal amount of dividend and other rights as the ordinary shares. Both the ordinary and promoter shares of the company had been trading for the last several years in the market under the symbols NABIL and NABILP. Investors usually hesitated to purchase promoter shares, however, promoter shares have been proved to be beneficial in case of NABIL Bank. Going back to the root of this, we must consider the initial capital holding structure of Nabil Bank. Of the total paid-up capital, 50% is held by NB International, 10% by Rastriya Beema Company, 30% by ordinary shareholders through the IPO, and the remaining 10% percent NIDC Bank. However, a few years back, when the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) issued a directive forbidding cross-holding of shares i.e. ownership of one bank by another bank, NIDC bank had to offload it’s 10% share via many rounds of share auctions to the general public. Thus, the 10% share previously held by NIDC entered the market as Nabil promoter shares (NABILP) via auction. This share had similar rights as the ordinary shares and no restrictions that are generally associated with promoter shares. Then NABIL decided to convert its 10% NABIL Promoter Shares into public shares. The auctioned Nabil Promoter shares (NABILP) previously held by NIDC Development Bank has been converted into ordinary shares fully. However, these shares are still not converted in Demat account as NABIL. The spokeperson in CDSC said “the transaction was stopped on Sunday only. It will still take time to settle the transactions of recently traded day. The conversion process will take a week. We hope to get it done by Friday.” On March 19, 2019 Nabil bank published a notice stating that the 10% NABILP shares will be converted into NABIL ordinary shares and any shareholder wishing to remain a promoter shareholder could submit an application to Nabil Bank. Around 90 lakhs of shares of NABILP (to be converted as NABIL public) are frozen. Unlike the promoter shares of other listed companies, Nabil Bank’s promoter shares were freely tradable and lucrative as well, as was eligible for an equal amount of dividend and other rights as the ordinary shares. Both the ordinary and promoter shares of the company had been trading for the last several years in the market under the symbols NABIL and NABILP. Investors usually hesitated to purchase promoter shares, however, promoter shares have been proved to be beneficial in case of NABIL Bank. Going back to the root of this, we must consider the initial capital holding structure of Nabil Bank. Of the total paid-up capital, 50% is held by NB International, 10% by Rastriya Beema Company, 30% by ordinary shareholders through the IPO, and the remaining 10% percent NIDC Bank. However, a few years back, when the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) issued a directive forbidding cross-holding of shares i.e. ownership of one bank by another bank, NIDC bank had to offload it’s 10% share via many rounds of share auctions to the general public. Thus, the 10% share previously held by NIDC entered the market as Nabil promoter shares (NABILP) via auction. This share had similar rights as the ordinary shares and no restrictions that are generally associated with promoter shares. Then NABIL decided to convert its 10% NABIL Promoter Shares into public shares. The auctioned Nabil Promoter shares (NABILP) previously held by NIDC Development Bank has been converted into ordinary shares fully. However, these shares are still not converted in Demat account as NABIL. The spokeperson in CDSC said “the transaction was stopped on Sunday only. It will still take time to settle the transactions of recently traded day. The conversion process will take a week. We hope to get it done by Friday.” On March 19, 2019 Nabil bank published a notice stating that the 10% NABILP shares will be converted into NABIL ordinary shares and any shareholder wishing to remain a promoter shareholder could submit an application to Nabil Bank. Around 90 lakhs of shares of NABILP (to be converted as NABIL public) are frozen. Unlike the promoter shares of other listed companies, Nabil Bank’s promoter shares were freely tradable and lucrative as well, as was eligible for an equal amount of dividend and other rights as the ordinary shares. Both the ordinary and promoter shares of the company had been trading for the last several years in the market under the symbols NABIL and NABILP. Investors usually hesitated to purchase promoter shares, however, promoter shares have been proved to be beneficial in case of NABIL Bank. Going back to the root of this, we must consider the initial capital holding structure of Nabil Bank. Of the total paid-up capital, 50% is held by NB International, 10% by Rastriya Beema Company, 30% by ordinary shareholders through the IPO, and the remaining 10% percent NIDC Bank. However, a few years back, when the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) issued a directive forbidding cross-holding of shares i.e. ownership of one bank by another bank, NIDC bank had to offload it’s 10% share via many rounds of share auctions to the general public. Thus, the 10% share previously held by NIDC entered the market as Nabil promoter shares (NABILP) via auction. This share had similar rights as the ordinary shares and no restrictions that are generally associated with promoter shares. Then NABIL decided to convert its 10% NABIL Promoter Shares into public shares. "
2019-07-08,10% NABILP fully converted to NABIL; No more NABILP tradeable shares available in NEPSE,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/10-nabilp-fully-converted-to-nabil-no-more-nabilp-tradeable-shares-available-in-nepse,"The auctioned Nabil Promoter shares (NABILP) previously held by NIDC Development Bank has been converted into ordinary shares fully. Unlike the promoter shares of other listed companies, Nabil Bank’s promoter shares were freely tradable and lucrative as well, as was eligible for an equal amount of dividend and other rights as the ordinary shares.Both the ordinary and promoter shares of the company had been trading for the last several years in the market under the symbols NABIL and NABILP. Investors usually hesitated to purchase promoter shares, however, promoter shares have been proved to be beneficial in case of NABIL Bank. Going back to the root of this, we must consider the initial capital holding structure of Nabil Bank. Of the total paid-up capital, 50% is held by NB International, 10% by Rastriya Beema Company, 30% by ordinary shareholders through the IPO, and the remaining 10% percent NIDC Bank. However, a few years back, when the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) issued a directive forbidding cross-holding of shares i.e. ownership of one bank by another bank, NIDC bank had to offload it’s 10% share via many rounds of share auctions to the general public. Thus, the 10% share previously held by NIDC entered the market as Nabil promoter shares (NABILP) via auction. This share had similar rights as the ordinary shares and no restrictions that are generally associated with promoter shares. Despite this fact, there was difference between NABIL price and NABILP price. The price gap was almost Rs 844 on 26th February, 2014, but the gap had decreased. Then, on March 19, 2019 Nabil bank published a notice stating that the 10% NABILP shares will be converted into NABIL ordianry shares and any shareholder wishing to remain a promoter shareholder could submit an application to Nabil Bank. Now, all the 10% shares have been converted into NABIL and are tradeable as NABIL. The remaining promoter shares of NABILP are not tradeable in NEPSE, therefore now you won't be able to place order in TMS to buy NABILP anymore. You will have to buy the NABIL shares, and finally no more confusion. The auctioned Nabil Promoter shares (NABILP) previously held by NIDC Development Bank has been converted into ordinary shares fully. Unlike the promoter shares of other listed companies, Nabil Bank’s promoter shares were freely tradable and lucrative as well, as was eligible for an equal amount of dividend and other rights as the ordinary shares.Both the ordinary and promoter shares of the company had been trading for the last several years in the market under the symbols NABIL and NABILP. Investors usually hesitated to purchase promoter shares, however, promoter shares have been proved to be beneficial in case of NABIL Bank. Going back to the root of this, we must consider the initial capital holding structure of Nabil Bank. Of the total paid-up capital, 50% is held by NB International, 10% by Rastriya Beema Company, 30% by ordinary shareholders through the IPO, and the remaining 10% percent NIDC Bank. However, a few years back, when the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) issued a directive forbidding cross-holding of shares i.e. ownership of one bank by another bank, NIDC bank had to offload it’s 10% share via many rounds of share auctions to the general public. Thus, the 10% share previously held by NIDC entered the market as Nabil promoter shares (NABILP) via auction. This share had similar rights as the ordinary shares and no restrictions that are generally associated with promoter shares. Despite this fact, there was difference between NABIL price and NABILP price. The price gap was almost Rs 844 on 26th February, 2014, but the gap had decreased. Then, on March 19, 2019 Nabil bank published a notice stating that the 10% NABILP shares will be converted into NABIL ordianry shares and any shareholder wishing to remain a promoter shareholder could submit an application to Nabil Bank. Now, all the 10% shares have been converted into NABIL and are tradeable as NABIL. The remaining promoter shares of NABILP are not tradeable in NEPSE, therefore now you won't be able to place order in TMS to buy NABILP anymore. You will have to buy the NABIL shares, and finally no more confusion. The auctioned Nabil Promoter shares (NABILP) previously held by NIDC Development Bank has been converted into ordinary shares fully. Unlike the promoter shares of other listed companies, Nabil Bank’s promoter shares were freely tradable and lucrative as well, as was eligible for an equal amount of dividend and other rights as the ordinary shares.Both the ordinary and promoter shares of the company had been trading for the last several years in the market under the symbols NABIL and NABILP. Investors usually hesitated to purchase promoter shares, however, promoter shares have been proved to be beneficial in case of NABIL Bank. Going back to the root of this, we must consider the initial capital holding structure of Nabil Bank. Of the total paid-up capital, 50% is held by NB International, 10% by Rastriya Beema Company, 30% by ordinary shareholders through the IPO, and the remaining 10% percent NIDC Bank. However, a few years back, when the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) issued a directive forbidding cross-holding of shares i.e. ownership of one bank by another bank, NIDC bank had to offload it’s 10% share via many rounds of share auctions to the general public. Thus, the 10% share previously held by NIDC entered the market as Nabil promoter shares (NABILP) via auction. This share had similar rights as the ordinary shares and no restrictions that are generally associated with promoter shares. Despite this fact, there was difference between NABIL price and NABILP price. The price gap was almost Rs 844 on 26th February, 2014, but the gap had decreased. Then, on March 19, 2019 Nabil bank published a notice stating that the 10% NABILP shares will be converted into NABIL ordianry shares and any shareholder wishing to remain a promoter shareholder could submit an application to Nabil Bank. Now, all the 10% shares have been converted into NABIL and are tradeable as NABIL. The remaining promoter shares of NABILP are not tradeable in NEPSE, therefore now you won't be able to place order in TMS to buy NABILP anymore. You will have to buy the NABIL shares, and finally no more confusion. "
2019-07-08,Top 10 bank in the world: Chinese bank still dominating the rank; know where Nepalese Banks stand comparative to world top banks,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/top-10-bank-in-the-world-chinese-bank-still-dominating-the-rank-know-where-nepalese-banks-stand-comparative-to-world-top-banks,"‘The Banker’ publishes the top 1000 world banks in 2019, showing the increment in the size of bank. Open economy around the world and free trade lead to boom in the banking sector. AS previous year, Chinese bank dominates the top 10 list. More precisely, top 4 banks out of top 10 banks are Chinese banks follows by next top 4 American Bank. China’s banks are the world’s largest ranked by Tier 1 capital and make the highest profits. However, despite the biggest bank in the world Chinese bank are less efficient than American Banks. Return on assets and return on equity of American Banks are higher than Chinese Bank. According to the report, the British Bank defied the Brexit gloom and increased their profits. Following is the list of 10 biggest bank: Source: Business Insider If we compare those top 10 biggest bank in the world with Nepalese bank, Nepalese banks stand nowhere. Following is the top 3 biggest bank of Nepal on the basis of Tier 1 capital Source: Unaudited financial report of third quarter (FY 2075/76) of Nepalese banks Although it will be unfair to compare the banks of Nepalese economy to the largest economies in the world, it is justifiable to ask the question, “Are Nepalese banks big enough for Nepalese economy itself?” Nepalese banks have to increase their capital comparing with Nepalese economy itself, if not with Asian banks or world’s largest banks. Data about world biggest economy and the inadequacy of capital in Nepalese bank justify the NRB in step toward the big merger. Merger and acquisition is essential to make banks healthier, more competitive and stronger.  ‘The Banker’ publishes the top 1000 world banks in 2019, showing the increment in the size of bank. Open economy around the world and free trade lead to boom in the banking sector. AS previous year, Chinese bank dominates the top 10 list. More precisely, top 4 banks out of top 10 banks are Chinese banks follows by next top 4 American Bank. China’s banks are the world’s largest ranked by Tier 1 capital and make the highest profits. However, despite the biggest bank in the world Chinese bank are less efficient than American Banks. Return on assets and return on equity of American Banks are higher than Chinese Bank. According to the report, the British Bank defied the Brexit gloom and increased their profits. Following is the list of 10 biggest bank: Source: Business Insider If we compare those top 10 biggest bank in the world with Nepalese bank, Nepalese banks stand nowhere. Following is the top 3 biggest bank of Nepal on the basis of Tier 1 capital Source: Unaudited financial report of third quarter (FY 2075/76) of Nepalese banks Although it will be unfair to compare the banks of Nepalese economy to the largest economies in the world, it is justifiable to ask the question, “Are Nepalese banks big enough for Nepalese economy itself?” Nepalese banks have to increase their capital comparing with Nepalese economy itself, if not with Asian banks or world’s largest banks. Data about world biggest economy and the inadequacy of capital in Nepalese bank justify the NRB in step toward the big merger. Merger and acquisition is essential to make banks healthier, more competitive and stronger.  ‘The Banker’ publishes the top 1000 world banks in 2019, showing the increment in the size of bank. Open economy around the world and free trade lead to boom in the banking sector. AS previous year, Chinese bank dominates the top 10 list. More precisely, top 4 banks out of top 10 banks are Chinese banks follows by next top 4 American Bank. China’s banks are the world’s largest ranked by Tier 1 capital and make the highest profits. However, despite the biggest bank in the world Chinese bank are less efficient than American Banks. Return on assets and return on equity of American Banks are higher than Chinese Bank. According to the report, the British Bank defied the Brexit gloom and increased their profits. Following is the list of 10 biggest bank: Source: Business Insider If we compare those top 10 biggest bank in the world with Nepalese bank, Nepalese banks stand nowhere. Following is the top 3 biggest bank of Nepal on the basis of Tier 1 capital Source: Unaudited financial report of third quarter (FY 2075/76) of Nepalese banks Although it will be unfair to compare the banks of Nepalese economy to the largest economies in the world, it is justifiable to ask the question, “Are Nepalese banks big enough for Nepalese economy itself?” Nepalese banks have to increase their capital comparing with Nepalese economy itself, if not with Asian banks or world’s largest banks. Data about world biggest economy and the inadequacy of capital in Nepalese bank justify the NRB in step toward the big merger. Merger and acquisition is essential to make banks healthier, more competitive and stronger.  "
2019-07-05,Nabil Bank and Lions Club- Nepal inks agreement for Issuance of Co-branded VISA Credit Card to members of Lions Club,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-lions-club-nepal-inks-agreement-for-issuance-of-co-branded-visa-credit-card-to-members-of-lions-club,"Nabil Bank has entered into an alliance with Lions Clubs-Nepal under which members of Lions Club can now avail Co-branded Visa Domestic Credit Cards from Nabil Bank. The agreement was inked during the Multiple District Conventions of Lions Clubs International at Alice Receptions, Gairidhara on June 8, 2019. Under the arrangement, Nabil bank will be supporting Lions Clubs-Nepal in area of social service activities. Mr. Binay K. Regmi, Deputy General Manager- Nabil Bank stated “In an endeavor of our ongoing efforts to CSR, Nabil Bank is happy to join hands with Lions Club for issuance of Co-branded Visa Credit card to the lions (members of Lions Club). The product is believed to be fruitful to both the institutions and to the Lion members as well as to the society.  Lion Mr. D. R. Khanal, Multiple Council Chairperson of Lions Club-Nepal said, “We are excited with the collaboration with Nabil Bank for this product for a noble cause. I urge all the lions to grab the opportunity for their own as well as for the benefit of the society.” The agreement exchange ceremony was witnessed by the District Governors of District A1 Mr. Sunil Ohja, District Governor of A2 Mr. Sudarshan D Pradhananga, District Governor of B1 Mr. Ashok Shrestha and District Governor of B2 Mr. Ananta Bhetwal. Lions Club International, established in 1917 AD, is the world’s largest social welfare organization doing social service activities though its 46,000 clubs and 1.4 million Lions members. Lions Club International extended in Nepal since 1971 AD. Around 32,000 Lions members have been doing social service activities in Nepal regularly through around 1200 Lions clubs. Nabil Bank is providing its services through a wide network of 79 branches, 133 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe in its pursuit of being the Bank of 1st Choice. Nabil Bank has entered into an alliance with Lions Clubs-Nepal under which members of Lions Club can now avail Co-branded Visa Domestic Credit Cards from Nabil Bank. The agreement was inked during the Multiple District Conventions of Lions Clubs International at Alice Receptions, Gairidhara on June 8, 2019. Under the arrangement, Nabil bank will be supporting Lions Clubs-Nepal in area of social service activities. Mr. Binay K. Regmi, Deputy General Manager- Nabil Bank stated “In an endeavor of our ongoing efforts to CSR, Nabil Bank is happy to join hands with Lions Club for issuance of Co-branded Visa Credit card to the lions (members of Lions Club). The product is believed to be fruitful to both the institutions and to the Lion members as well as to the society.  Lion Mr. D. R. Khanal, Multiple Council Chairperson of Lions Club-Nepal said, “We are excited with the collaboration with Nabil Bank for this product for a noble cause. I urge all the lions to grab the opportunity for their own as well as for the benefit of the society.” The agreement exchange ceremony was witnessed by the District Governors of District A1 Mr. Sunil Ohja, District Governor of A2 Mr. Sudarshan D Pradhananga, District Governor of B1 Mr. Ashok Shrestha and District Governor of B2 Mr. Ananta Bhetwal. Lions Club International, established in 1917 AD, is the world’s largest social welfare organization doing social service activities though its 46,000 clubs and 1.4 million Lions members. Lions Club International extended in Nepal since 1971 AD. Around 32,000 Lions members have been doing social service activities in Nepal regularly through around 1200 Lions clubs. Nabil Bank is providing its services through a wide network of 79 branches, 133 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe in its pursuit of being the Bank of 1st Choice. Nabil Bank has entered into an alliance with Lions Clubs-Nepal under which members of Lions Club can now avail Co-branded Visa Domestic Credit Cards from Nabil Bank. The agreement was inked during the Multiple District Conventions of Lions Clubs International at Alice Receptions, Gairidhara on June 8, 2019. Under the arrangement, Nabil bank will be supporting Lions Clubs-Nepal in area of social service activities. Mr. Binay K. Regmi, Deputy General Manager- Nabil Bank stated “In an endeavor of our ongoing efforts to CSR, Nabil Bank is happy to join hands with Lions Club for issuance of Co-branded Visa Credit card to the lions (members of Lions Club). The product is believed to be fruitful to both the institutions and to the Lion members as well as to the society.  Lion Mr. D. R. Khanal, Multiple Council Chairperson of Lions Club-Nepal said, “We are excited with the collaboration with Nabil Bank for this product for a noble cause. I urge all the lions to grab the opportunity for their own as well as for the benefit of the society.” The agreement exchange ceremony was witnessed by the District Governors of District A1 Mr. Sunil Ohja, District Governor of A2 Mr. Sudarshan D Pradhananga, District Governor of B1 Mr. Ashok Shrestha and District Governor of B2 Mr. Ananta Bhetwal. Lions Club International, established in 1917 AD, is the world’s largest social welfare organization doing social service activities though its 46,000 clubs and 1.4 million Lions members. Lions Club International extended in Nepal since 1971 AD. Around 32,000 Lions members have been doing social service activities in Nepal regularly through around 1200 Lions clubs. Nabil Bank is providing its services through a wide network of 79 branches, 133 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe in its pursuit of being the Bank of 1st Choice. "
2019-07-04,Underpriced and Overpriced commercial banks in NEPSE according to CAMELS rating; RBB and Nabil Bank among top,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/underpriced-and-overpriced-commercial-banks-in-nepse-according-to-camels-rating-rbb-and-nabil-bank-among-top,"CAMELS is a recognized international rating system that bank supervisory authorities use in order to rate financial institution according to six factors represented by its acronym: C- Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) A- Assets quality measured by Non-performing assets/loan (NPL) M- Quality of management is a subjective factor and requires deep analysis. However for the purpose of this study we have used spread rate and cost of fund. E- Earnings is measured by Net Profit, Earning per share (EPS) and Diluted EPS. L- Liquidity is measured by credit to core capital cum credit (CCD) ratio Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has also been using CAMELS rating to evaluate strength, weakness and position of banks. Therefore, it is wise for the investor to analyze their investment decision according to CAMELS rating. Generally, the bank with high share prices are evidenced by adequate CCD, low base rate,  low cost of fund, higher interest spread, less NPA and consequently more profit (high CAMELS rating). In fact it should be. Among 28 commercial banks, RBB has the highest score on the CAMEL analysis; however, since its shares are not traded in public, we have ignored the correlation between CAMEL scores and its share price. From the data it can be seen that Nabil bank stands at the top with highest CAMEL rating and thus the highest market price. But Nepal Bank Limited, despite being the next high scorer in CAMEL analysis, has lower share price than other banks. This indicates that Nepal Bank is heavily underpriced. Similarly CAMELS rating shows that investment bank gains higher rating than Himalayan Bank. In contrast the price of Himalayan Bank is higher. Therefore, either Nepal investment bank is underpriced or Himalayan Bank is overpriced. Next NIC Asia, who has been gaining fame on aggressive deposit and loan expansion has also gained higher CAMELS rating. However, its market price does not match with CAMELS rating and seems that it is underpriced in the market. Likewise, NMB bank is overpriced as you can see that its CAMELS rating is negative. Other than these instances, the other banks' CAMELS rating and prevalent market price seems to be in consistency.  For reference the share prices of 2nd July 2019 was taken. CAMELS rating was calculated on the basis of last four quarterly report of banks. A positive point was given to those banks whose performance was better than the average and the banks who outperformed in the minimum requirement criteria. For example, if the CAR of any bank happens to be 12.34 %, then that bank has been assigned the score of +1.34. Similarly, if the industry average NPA is 2.34 % and the particular bank’s NPA happens to be 4.15%, then that bank will get a score of - 1.81. Likewise, a particular bank’s NPA happens to be 0.79%, then that bank will get a score of +1.55. As a result, higher the CAMELS rating, better the bank and share price. (Disclaimer: The CAMELS indicator also uses a lot of other indicators which haven't been used in the study due to limitations. The readers are advised to carry their Due diligence before making an investment decision and not rely on this analysis alone.) CAMELS is a recognized international rating system that bank supervisory authorities use in order to rate financial institution according to six factors represented by its acronym: C- Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) A- Assets quality measured by Non-performing assets/loan (NPL) M- Quality of management is a subjective factor and requires deep analysis. However for the purpose of this study we have used spread rate and cost of fund. E- Earnings is measured by Net Profit, Earning per share (EPS) and Diluted EPS. L- Liquidity is measured by credit to core capital cum credit (CCD) ratio Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has also been using CAMELS rating to evaluate strength, weakness and position of banks. Therefore, it is wise for the investor to analyze their investment decision according to CAMELS rating. Generally, the bank with high share prices are evidenced by adequate CCD, low base rate,  low cost of fund, higher interest spread, less NPA and consequently more profit (high CAMELS rating). In fact it should be. Among 28 commercial banks, RBB has the highest score on the CAMEL analysis; however, since its shares are not traded in public, we have ignored the correlation between CAMEL scores and its share price. From the data it can be seen that Nabil bank stands at the top with highest CAMEL rating and thus the highest market price. But Nepal Bank Limited, despite being the next high scorer in CAMEL analysis, has lower share price than other banks. This indicates that Nepal Bank is heavily underpriced. Similarly CAMELS rating shows that investment bank gains higher rating than Himalayan Bank. In contrast the price of Himalayan Bank is higher. Therefore, either Nepal investment bank is underpriced or Himalayan Bank is overpriced. Next NIC Asia, who has been gaining fame on aggressive deposit and loan expansion has also gained higher CAMELS rating. However, its market price does not match with CAMELS rating and seems that it is underpriced in the market. Likewise, NMB bank is overpriced as you can see that its CAMELS rating is negative. Other than these instances, the other banks' CAMELS rating and prevalent market price seems to be in consistency.  For reference the share prices of 2nd July 2019 was taken. CAMELS rating was calculated on the basis of last four quarterly report of banks. A positive point was given to those banks whose performance was better than the average and the banks who outperformed in the minimum requirement criteria. For example, if the CAR of any bank happens to be 12.34 %, then that bank has been assigned the score of +1.34. Similarly, if the industry average NPA is 2.34 % and the particular bank’s NPA happens to be 4.15%, then that bank will get a score of - 1.81. Likewise, a particular bank’s NPA happens to be 0.79%, then that bank will get a score of +1.55. As a result, higher the CAMELS rating, better the bank and share price. (Disclaimer: The CAMELS indicator also uses a lot of other indicators which haven't been used in the study due to limitations. The readers are advised to carry their Due diligence before making an investment decision and not rely on this analysis alone.) CAMELS is a recognized international rating system that bank supervisory authorities use in order to rate financial institution according to six factors represented by its acronym: C- Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) A- Assets quality measured by Non-performing assets/loan (NPL) M- Quality of management is a subjective factor and requires deep analysis. However for the purpose of this study we have used spread rate and cost of fund. E- Earnings is measured by Net Profit, Earning per share (EPS) and Diluted EPS. L- Liquidity is measured by credit to core capital cum credit (CCD) ratio Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has also been using CAMELS rating to evaluate strength, weakness and position of banks. Therefore, it is wise for the investor to analyze their investment decision according to CAMELS rating. Generally, the bank with high share prices are evidenced by adequate CCD, low base rate,  low cost of fund, higher interest spread, less NPA and consequently more profit (high CAMELS rating). In fact it should be. Among 28 commercial banks, RBB has the highest score on the CAMEL analysis; however, since its shares are not traded in public, we have ignored the correlation between CAMEL scores and its share price. From the data it can be seen that Nabil bank stands at the top with highest CAMEL rating and thus the highest market price. But Nepal Bank Limited, despite being the next high scorer in CAMEL analysis, has lower share price than other banks. This indicates that Nepal Bank is heavily underpriced. Similarly CAMELS rating shows that investment bank gains higher rating than Himalayan Bank. In contrast the price of Himalayan Bank is higher. Therefore, either Nepal investment bank is underpriced or Himalayan Bank is overpriced. Next NIC Asia, who has been gaining fame on aggressive deposit and loan expansion has also gained higher CAMELS rating. However, its market price does not match with CAMELS rating and seems that it is underpriced in the market. Likewise, NMB bank is overpriced as you can see that its CAMELS rating is negative. Other than these instances, the other banks' CAMELS rating and prevalent market price seems to be in consistency.  For reference the share prices of 2nd July 2019 was taken. CAMELS rating was calculated on the basis of last four quarterly report of banks. A positive point was given to those banks whose performance was better than the average and the banks who outperformed in the minimum requirement criteria. For example, if the CAR of any bank happens to be 12.34 %, then that bank has been assigned the score of +1.34. Similarly, if the industry average NPA is 2.34 % and the particular bank’s NPA happens to be 4.15%, then that bank will get a score of - 1.81. Likewise, a particular bank’s NPA happens to be 0.79%, then that bank will get a score of +1.55. As a result, higher the CAMELS rating, better the bank and share price. (Disclaimer: The CAMELS indicator also uses a lot of other indicators which haven't been used in the study due to limitations. The readers are advised to carry their Due diligence before making an investment decision and not rely on this analysis alone.) "
2019-07-04,Card Customers of Nabil Bank to enjoy special privileges at Biratnagar Aspatal,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/card-customers-of-nabil-bank-to-enjoy-special-privileges-at-biratnagar-aspatal,"Nabil Bank has entered into an alliance with Biratnagar Aspatal PL under which Nabil Bank’s debit, credit, prepaid card holders and shareholders will receive a special discount and other privileges at the hospital. Biratnagar Aspatal P.Ltd would try to provide fast track medical care services to Nabil Bank’s Debit/Prepaid, Credit Card holders and shareholders. Mr. Rajesh Das, BM- Biratnagar of Nabil Bank Ltd said “In continuation of our ongoing efforts to provide better services to our customers, we are happy to announce the alliance with Biratnagar Aspatal. We believe this partnership will provide better advantages to our card holders”  Mr. Sunil Taparia, Director of Biratnagar Aspatal P.Ltd stated “With our commitment to the service of the people of Nepal, we at Birat Aspatal are very excited about this alliance with Nabil Bank and believe it is another step forward to serve the nation”. Biratnagar Aspatal P.ltd is a premium 400 rooms healthcare institution with 19 yrs of experience which located at Kamal Pokhari Marg, Biratnagar-3, Morang. Nabil Bank is providing its services through a wide network of 79 branches, 133 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe in its pursuit of being the Bank of 1st Choice. Nabil Bank has entered into an alliance with Biratnagar Aspatal PL under which Nabil Bank’s debit, credit, prepaid card holders and shareholders will receive a special discount and other privileges at the hospital. Biratnagar Aspatal P.Ltd would try to provide fast track medical care services to Nabil Bank’s Debit/Prepaid, Credit Card holders and shareholders. Mr. Rajesh Das, BM- Biratnagar of Nabil Bank Ltd said “In continuation of our ongoing efforts to provide better services to our customers, we are happy to announce the alliance with Biratnagar Aspatal. We believe this partnership will provide better advantages to our card holders”  Mr. Sunil Taparia, Director of Biratnagar Aspatal P.Ltd stated “With our commitment to the service of the people of Nepal, we at Birat Aspatal are very excited about this alliance with Nabil Bank and believe it is another step forward to serve the nation”. Biratnagar Aspatal P.ltd is a premium 400 rooms healthcare institution with 19 yrs of experience which located at Kamal Pokhari Marg, Biratnagar-3, Morang. Nabil Bank is providing its services through a wide network of 79 branches, 133 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe in its pursuit of being the Bank of 1st Choice. Nabil Bank has entered into an alliance with Biratnagar Aspatal PL under which Nabil Bank’s debit, credit, prepaid card holders and shareholders will receive a special discount and other privileges at the hospital. Biratnagar Aspatal P.Ltd would try to provide fast track medical care services to Nabil Bank’s Debit/Prepaid, Credit Card holders and shareholders. Mr. Rajesh Das, BM- Biratnagar of Nabil Bank Ltd said “In continuation of our ongoing efforts to provide better services to our customers, we are happy to announce the alliance with Biratnagar Aspatal. We believe this partnership will provide better advantages to our card holders”  Mr. Sunil Taparia, Director of Biratnagar Aspatal P.Ltd stated “With our commitment to the service of the people of Nepal, we at Birat Aspatal are very excited about this alliance with Nabil Bank and believe it is another step forward to serve the nation”. Biratnagar Aspatal P.ltd is a premium 400 rooms healthcare institution with 19 yrs of experience which located at Kamal Pokhari Marg, Biratnagar-3, Morang. Nabil Bank is providing its services through a wide network of 79 branches, 133 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe in its pursuit of being the Bank of 1st Choice. "
2019-07-02,More than 90 Lakh units of Nabil Bank Limited Promoter Shares converted to ordinary shares; promoter public shareholding ratio stands at 60:40,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/more-than-90-lakh-units-of-nabil-bank-limited-promoter-shares-converted-to-ordinary-shares-promoter-public-shareholding-ratio-stands-at-6040,"Nepal Stock Exchange Limited (NEPSE) has published a notice regarding the conversion of Promoter Shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABILP). As per the notice published, 9,002,566 units promoter shares of Nabil Bank Limited has been converted into Public (ordinary) Share leaving Promoter Public Share ratio 60:40. Of the total paid-up capital, 50% was held by NB International, 10% by Rastriya Beema Company, 30% by ordinary shareholders through the IPO, and the remaining 10% percent NIDC Bank. However, when the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) issued a directive forbidding cross-holding of shares i.e. ownership of one bank by another bank, NIDC bank had to offload its 10% share via many rounds of share auctions to the general public. Thus, the 10% share previously held by NIDC entered market as Nabil promoter shares (NABILP) via multiple rounds of auction. So, this share had similar rights as the ordinary shares and no restrictions that is generally associated with promoter shares. These shares have been converted to ordinary shares. The last traded price on 1st July, 2019 of Nabil stood Rs 785, whereas, of NabilP Rs 773 per scrip.  Nepal Stock Exchange Limited (NEPSE) has published a notice regarding the conversion of Promoter Shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABILP). As per the notice published, 9,002,566 units promoter shares of Nabil Bank Limited has been converted into Public (ordinary) Share leaving Promoter Public Share ratio 60:40. Of the total paid-up capital, 50% was held by NB International, 10% by Rastriya Beema Company, 30% by ordinary shareholders through the IPO, and the remaining 10% percent NIDC Bank. However, when the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) issued a directive forbidding cross-holding of shares i.e. ownership of one bank by another bank, NIDC bank had to offload its 10% share via many rounds of share auctions to the general public. Thus, the 10% share previously held by NIDC entered market as Nabil promoter shares (NABILP) via multiple rounds of auction. So, this share had similar rights as the ordinary shares and no restrictions that is generally associated with promoter shares. These shares have been converted to ordinary shares. The last traded price on 1st July, 2019 of Nabil stood Rs 785, whereas, of NabilP Rs 773 per scrip.  Nepal Stock Exchange Limited (NEPSE) has published a notice regarding the conversion of Promoter Shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABILP). As per the notice published, 9,002,566 units promoter shares of Nabil Bank Limited has been converted into Public (ordinary) Share leaving Promoter Public Share ratio 60:40. Of the total paid-up capital, 50% was held by NB International, 10% by Rastriya Beema Company, 30% by ordinary shareholders through the IPO, and the remaining 10% percent NIDC Bank. However, when the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) issued a directive forbidding cross-holding of shares i.e. ownership of one bank by another bank, NIDC bank had to offload its 10% share via many rounds of share auctions to the general public. Thus, the 10% share previously held by NIDC entered market as Nabil promoter shares (NABILP) via multiple rounds of auction. So, this share had similar rights as the ordinary shares and no restrictions that is generally associated with promoter shares. These shares have been converted to ordinary shares. The last traded price on 1st July, 2019 of Nabil stood Rs 785, whereas, of NabilP Rs 773 per scrip.  "
2019-06-17,12% bonus shares of Nabil Bank Limited listed on NEPSE; more than 9 Million units listed,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/12-bonus-shares-of-nabil-bank-limited-listed-on-nepse-more-than-9-million-units-listed,"Nepal Stock Exchange Limited (NEPSE) has published a circular regarding the listing of bonus shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL). As per the notice published, 9,686,244 units bonus share of Nabil Bank Limited has been listed on the stock exchange. These shares can be freely traded on the secondary market. NABIL had distributed 12% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend out of the profits of FY 74/75 for the shareholders. Nepal Stock Exchange Limited (NEPSE) has published a circular regarding the listing of bonus shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL). As per the notice published, 9,686,244 units bonus share of Nabil Bank Limited has been listed on the stock exchange. These shares can be freely traded on the secondary market. NABIL had distributed 12% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend out of the profits of FY 74/75 for the shareholders. Nepal Stock Exchange Limited (NEPSE) has published a circular regarding the listing of bonus shares of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL). As per the notice published, 9,686,244 units bonus share of Nabil Bank Limited has been listed on the stock exchange. These shares can be freely traded on the secondary market. NABIL had distributed 12% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend out of the profits of FY 74/75 for the shareholders. "
2019-06-17,Nabil Bank and Kathmandu Metropolitan City inks agreement for beautification of Kathmandu’s Traffic Islands,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-kathmandu-metropolitan-city-inks-agreement-for-beautification-of-kathmandus-traffic-islands,"In keeping with its Greenovation initiative Nabil Bank has entered into an agreement with Kathmandu Metropolitan at City Hall on 2076 Jestha 31 to beautify Traffic Islands located in front of New Road Gate (West of Tundikhel) & Citi Hall (East of Tundikhel) installing 12 Flower Towers. These flower towers will display flowers through-out the year using Aeroponic technique. This system converts water into mist which is sprayed on the flowers regularly. Underground tank, water pump, inverter (alternate to city electricity) etc. are integral parts of the system. No pesticide is used.  Under this agreement, Nabil bank will be supporting Kathmandu Metropolitan City by installing and maintaining these environmentally friendly, modern Flower Towers for the beautification of Kathmandu City. Mr. Bidya Sunder Shakya, Mayor - Kathmandu Metropolitan said that, “We are excited on collaboration with Nabil Bank for beautification of the traffic islands of Kathmandu City by displaying flowers throughout the year similar to what we see in cities of developed countries. This would be a good example also for other corporate houses to contribute in enhancement of the city’s environment.” Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer - Nabil Bank stated “In continuity of our ongoing Greenovation initiative, Nabil Bank is happy to join hands with Kathmandu Metropolitan City Office and assist in making Kathmandu a more beautiful city. We believe that Flower Towers like these will enhance not only the beauty but also the environment of the city we all call home.” Nabil Bank is providing its services through a wide network of 79 branches, 133 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe in its pursuit of continuing as “The Bank of 1st Choice”. In keeping with its Greenovation initiative Nabil Bank has entered into an agreement with Kathmandu Metropolitan at City Hall on 2076 Jestha 31 to beautify Traffic Islands located in front of New Road Gate (West of Tundikhel) & Citi Hall (East of Tundikhel) installing 12 Flower Towers. These flower towers will display flowers through-out the year using Aeroponic technique. This system converts water into mist which is sprayed on the flowers regularly. Underground tank, water pump, inverter (alternate to city electricity) etc. are integral parts of the system. No pesticide is used.  Under this agreement, Nabil bank will be supporting Kathmandu Metropolitan City by installing and maintaining these environmentally friendly, modern Flower Towers for the beautification of Kathmandu City. Mr. Bidya Sunder Shakya, Mayor - Kathmandu Metropolitan said that, “We are excited on collaboration with Nabil Bank for beautification of the traffic islands of Kathmandu City by displaying flowers throughout the year similar to what we see in cities of developed countries. This would be a good example also for other corporate houses to contribute in enhancement of the city’s environment.” Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer - Nabil Bank stated “In continuity of our ongoing Greenovation initiative, Nabil Bank is happy to join hands with Kathmandu Metropolitan City Office and assist in making Kathmandu a more beautiful city. We believe that Flower Towers like these will enhance not only the beauty but also the environment of the city we all call home.” Nabil Bank is providing its services through a wide network of 79 branches, 133 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe in its pursuit of continuing as “The Bank of 1st Choice”. In keeping with its Greenovation initiative Nabil Bank has entered into an agreement with Kathmandu Metropolitan at City Hall on 2076 Jestha 31 to beautify Traffic Islands located in front of New Road Gate (West of Tundikhel) & Citi Hall (East of Tundikhel) installing 12 Flower Towers. These flower towers will display flowers through-out the year using Aeroponic technique. This system converts water into mist which is sprayed on the flowers regularly. Underground tank, water pump, inverter (alternate to city electricity) etc. are integral parts of the system. No pesticide is used.  Under this agreement, Nabil bank will be supporting Kathmandu Metropolitan City by installing and maintaining these environmentally friendly, modern Flower Towers for the beautification of Kathmandu City. Mr. Bidya Sunder Shakya, Mayor - Kathmandu Metropolitan said that, “We are excited on collaboration with Nabil Bank for beautification of the traffic islands of Kathmandu City by displaying flowers throughout the year similar to what we see in cities of developed countries. This would be a good example also for other corporate houses to contribute in enhancement of the city’s environment.” Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer - Nabil Bank stated “In continuity of our ongoing Greenovation initiative, Nabil Bank is happy to join hands with Kathmandu Metropolitan City Office and assist in making Kathmandu a more beautiful city. We believe that Flower Towers like these will enhance not only the beauty but also the environment of the city we all call home.” Nabil Bank is providing its services through a wide network of 79 branches, 133 ATMs and more than 1500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe in its pursuit of continuing as “The Bank of 1st Choice”. "
2019-06-16,How have commercial banks performed over the past 5 years? See their growth in major indicators,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/how-have-commercial-banks-performed-over-the-past-5-years-see-their-growth-in-major-indicators,"A company is only as strong as its fundamentals and the strength of those fundamentals is reflected through their numbers. Commercial banks, being one of the successful industry in the Nepali market, are persistently sought after by investors. They are also under close scrutiny of Nepal Rastra Bank, which again fosters the trust of investors. Therefore in this article we will be looking at the major indicators of commercial banks over the period of 5 years from FY 2070/71 to FY 2075/76. All the data taken are from the third quarter reports of respective fiscal years. DEPOSITS The industry average deposits of commercial banks stood at Rs 38 arba as of Q3 of FY 2070/71. Five years down the line, this figure has reached Rs 94.9 arba reporting a rise of 149.7%. Thus, in terms of compounded annual growth, the deposits collection of commercial banks has risen by 20.08%. Similarly, if we look at individual banks, Mega Bank has reported the highest CAGR of 35.2% followed closely by Janata Bank at 35.07%. Likewise in the lower end lies Nepal Bank with CAGR of 9.96% only, preceded by Standard Chartered Bank and Agricultural Development Bank at 10.67% and 11.25% respectively.  *Data taken from SSpro. LOANS AND ADVANCES The average loans and advances of commercial bank as of Q3 FY 2075/76 stands at Rs 84 arba, which stood at Rs 29 arba in Q3 of FY 2070/71. This reports a rise of 190.99% in a period of 5 years and a compounded annual growth rate of 23.82%, which slightly above the CAGR of deposits. In a close up, we can see that NMB bank and Janata Bank have the highest CAGR in loans and advances of 35.76%. Likewise, Mega bank stands at third position with 35.61%. On the other end, Agricultural Development Bank has reported the lowest CAGR of 15.16% only. Nepal Bank, who had the lowest growth in deposists, has shown some resilience in loans and advances ranking at 21st position with CAGR of 18.79%. In the Q3 of FY 2070/71, ADBL was the highest lenders whereas 5 years later it has been surpassed by NIC Asia Bank, Nabil bank and Nepal Investment Bank.  *Data taken from SSpro. RESERVES AND SURPLUS The commercial banking industry's average reserves and surplus has grown by 275.7% from Q3 of FY 2070/71 to Q3 of FY 2075/76. Janata Bank reports the highest growth of 85.4% against the lowest of 11.66% of Standard Chartered Bank. Likewise Nepal Bank doesn't fit in the list as it still has accumulated losses to cover for.  *Data taken from SSpro. NET INTEREST INCOME The average net interest income of commercial banks of Nepal has grown by 183.93% in the period of 5 years. The amount has grown from Rs 1.12 arba to Rs 3.18 arba as of Q3 FY 2075/76 with a CAGR of 23.21%. Century commercial bank has reported the highest growth in this period, followed shortly by Janata Bank. Similalry, the lowest growth has been reported by Agricultural Development Bank at just 10.35%.  *Data taken from SSpro. OPERATING PROFIT The average operating profit of commercial banks for Q3 of FY 2070/71 stood at Rs 67.9 crore. The figure has rose by 224% in five years standing at Rs 2.2 arba in Q3 of this fiscal year. Janata Bank has topped the list with CAGR of 83.51%, followed far behind by Century commercial bank at 65.96%. Overall, out of 25 banks 19 lie above industry average and only 6 below the indutry average. Similarly, Standard Chartered Bank is last on the line with a CAGR of 11.55% only.  *Data taken from SSpro. NET PROFIT Unlike in operating profit, there appears a balance in net profit with 14 banks above industry average and 11 banks below industry average. The average net profit of commercial banks has risen from Rs 57.4 crore to Rs 1.56 arba with a CAGR of 28.43% in five years. Janata Bank yet again tops the list with a CAGR of 66% followed by Nepal bank at 57%. On the lower end stands Nepal Investment Bank with CAGR of 13.77%.  *Data taken from SSpro. INDUSTRY AVERAGE SUMMARY As we can see in the table below, the CAGR for each indicator is similar ranging from 20 percent to 30 percent.  *Data taken from SSpro. A company is only as strong as its fundamentals and the strength of those fundamentals is reflected through their numbers. Commercial banks, being one of the successful industry in the Nepali market, are persistently sought after by investors. They are also under close scrutiny of Nepal Rastra Bank, which again fosters the trust of investors. Therefore in this article we will be looking at the major indicators of commercial banks over the period of 5 years from FY 2070/71 to FY 2075/76. All the data taken are from the third quarter reports of respective fiscal years. DEPOSITS The industry average deposits of commercial banks stood at Rs 38 arba as of Q3 of FY 2070/71. Five years down the line, this figure has reached Rs 94.9 arba reporting a rise of 149.7%. Thus, in terms of compounded annual growth, the deposits collection of commercial banks has risen by 20.08%. Similarly, if we look at individual banks, Mega Bank has reported the highest CAGR of 35.2% followed closely by Janata Bank at 35.07%. Likewise in the lower end lies Nepal Bank with CAGR of 9.96% only, preceded by Standard Chartered Bank and Agricultural Development Bank at 10.67% and 11.25% respectively.  *Data taken from SSpro. LOANS AND ADVANCES The average loans and advances of commercial bank as of Q3 FY 2075/76 stands at Rs 84 arba, which stood at Rs 29 arba in Q3 of FY 2070/71. This reports a rise of 190.99% in a period of 5 years and a compounded annual growth rate of 23.82%, which slightly above the CAGR of deposits. In a close up, we can see that NMB bank and Janata Bank have the highest CAGR in loans and advances of 35.76%. Likewise, Mega bank stands at third position with 35.61%. On the other end, Agricultural Development Bank has reported the lowest CAGR of 15.16% only. Nepal Bank, who had the lowest growth in deposists, has shown some resilience in loans and advances ranking at 21st position with CAGR of 18.79%. In the Q3 of FY 2070/71, ADBL was the highest lenders whereas 5 years later it has been surpassed by NIC Asia Bank, Nabil bank and Nepal Investment Bank.  *Data taken from SSpro. RESERVES AND SURPLUS The commercial banking industry's average reserves and surplus has grown by 275.7% from Q3 of FY 2070/71 to Q3 of FY 2075/76. Janata Bank reports the highest growth of 85.4% against the lowest of 11.66% of Standard Chartered Bank. Likewise Nepal Bank doesn't fit in the list as it still has accumulated losses to cover for.  *Data taken from SSpro. NET INTEREST INCOME The average net interest income of commercial banks of Nepal has grown by 183.93% in the period of 5 years. The amount has grown from Rs 1.12 arba to Rs 3.18 arba as of Q3 FY 2075/76 with a CAGR of 23.21%. Century commercial bank has reported the highest growth in this period, followed shortly by Janata Bank. Similalry, the lowest growth has been reported by Agricultural Development Bank at just 10.35%.  *Data taken from SSpro. OPERATING PROFIT The average operating profit of commercial banks for Q3 of FY 2070/71 stood at Rs 67.9 crore. The figure has rose by 224% in five years standing at Rs 2.2 arba in Q3 of this fiscal year. Janata Bank has topped the list with CAGR of 83.51%, followed far behind by Century commercial bank at 65.96%. Overall, out of 25 banks 19 lie above industry average and only 6 below the indutry average. Similarly, Standard Chartered Bank is last on the line with a CAGR of 11.55% only.  *Data taken from SSpro. NET PROFIT Unlike in operating profit, there appears a balance in net profit with 14 banks above industry average and 11 banks below industry average. The average net profit of commercial banks has risen from Rs 57.4 crore to Rs 1.56 arba with a CAGR of 28.43% in five years. Janata Bank yet again tops the list with a CAGR of 66% followed by Nepal bank at 57%. On the lower end stands Nepal Investment Bank with CAGR of 13.77%.  *Data taken from SSpro. INDUSTRY AVERAGE SUMMARY As we can see in the table below, the CAGR for each indicator is similar ranging from 20 percent to 30 percent.  *Data taken from SSpro. A company is only as strong as its fundamentals and the strength of those fundamentals is reflected through their numbers. Commercial banks, being one of the successful industry in the Nepali market, are persistently sought after by investors. They are also under close scrutiny of Nepal Rastra Bank, which again fosters the trust of investors. Therefore in this article we will be looking at the major indicators of commercial banks over the period of 5 years from FY 2070/71 to FY 2075/76. All the data taken are from the third quarter reports of respective fiscal years. DEPOSITS The industry average deposits of commercial banks stood at Rs 38 arba as of Q3 of FY 2070/71. Five years down the line, this figure has reached Rs 94.9 arba reporting a rise of 149.7%. Thus, in terms of compounded annual growth, the deposits collection of commercial banks has risen by 20.08%. Similarly, if we look at individual banks, Mega Bank has reported the highest CAGR of 35.2% followed closely by Janata Bank at 35.07%. Likewise in the lower end lies Nepal Bank with CAGR of 9.96% only, preceded by Standard Chartered Bank and Agricultural Development Bank at 10.67% and 11.25% respectively.  *Data taken from SSpro. LOANS AND ADVANCES The average loans and advances of commercial bank as of Q3 FY 2075/76 stands at Rs 84 arba, which stood at Rs 29 arba in Q3 of FY 2070/71. This reports a rise of 190.99% in a period of 5 years and a compounded annual growth rate of 23.82%, which slightly above the CAGR of deposits. In a close up, we can see that NMB bank and Janata Bank have the highest CAGR in loans and advances of 35.76%. Likewise, Mega bank stands at third position with 35.61%. On the other end, Agricultural Development Bank has reported the lowest CAGR of 15.16% only. Nepal Bank, who had the lowest growth in deposists, has shown some resilience in loans and advances ranking at 21st position with CAGR of 18.79%. In the Q3 of FY 2070/71, ADBL was the highest lenders whereas 5 years later it has been surpassed by NIC Asia Bank, Nabil bank and Nepal Investment Bank.  *Data taken from SSpro. RESERVES AND SURPLUS The commercial banking industry's average reserves and surplus has grown by 275.7% from Q3 of FY 2070/71 to Q3 of FY 2075/76. Janata Bank reports the highest growth of 85.4% against the lowest of 11.66% of Standard Chartered Bank. Likewise Nepal Bank doesn't fit in the list as it still has accumulated losses to cover for.  *Data taken from SSpro. NET INTEREST INCOME The average net interest income of commercial banks of Nepal has grown by 183.93% in the period of 5 years. The amount has grown from Rs 1.12 arba to Rs 3.18 arba as of Q3 FY 2075/76 with a CAGR of 23.21%. Century commercial bank has reported the highest growth in this period, followed shortly by Janata Bank. Similalry, the lowest growth has been reported by Agricultural Development Bank at just 10.35%.  *Data taken from SSpro. OPERATING PROFIT The average operating profit of commercial banks for Q3 of FY 2070/71 stood at Rs 67.9 crore. The figure has rose by 224% in five years standing at Rs 2.2 arba in Q3 of this fiscal year. Janata Bank has topped the list with CAGR of 83.51%, followed far behind by Century commercial bank at 65.96%. Overall, out of 25 banks 19 lie above industry average and only 6 below the indutry average. Similarly, Standard Chartered Bank is last on the line with a CAGR of 11.55% only.  *Data taken from SSpro. NET PROFIT Unlike in operating profit, there appears a balance in net profit with 14 banks above industry average and 11 banks below industry average. The average net profit of commercial banks has risen from Rs 57.4 crore to Rs 1.56 arba with a CAGR of 28.43% in five years. Janata Bank yet again tops the list with a CAGR of 66% followed by Nepal bank at 57%. On the lower end stands Nepal Investment Bank with CAGR of 13.77%.  *Data taken from SSpro. INDUSTRY AVERAGE SUMMARY As we can see in the table below, the CAGR for each indicator is similar ranging from 20 percent to 30 percent.  *Data taken from SSpro. "
2019-05-31,Allotment of Nabil Balanced Fund II concludes; Fund size stands at Rs 1.12 arba with huge number of invalid applications,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/allotment-of-nabil-balanced-fund-ii-concludes-fund-size-stands-at-rs-112-arba-with-huge-number-of-invalid-applications,"Nabil Balance Fund II, managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited and sponsored by Nabil Bank Limited had floated public issue of 12 crore units mutual fund scheme worth Rs 1.2 arba from Baisakh 5, 2076. The mutual fund had issued a total of 12 crore unit of ordinary shares worth Rs 1.20 arba at face value of Rs 10 per unit. Nabil Balance Fund II is the Nabil Investment Banking Limited third mutual fund scheme, and is a 10-years closed-end fund. The scheme will be managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited with Nabil Bank Limited as the fund sponsor. Under the current mutual fund regulation, 15% units i.e. 1.80 crore units are reserved for fund manager and fund sponsor. Remaining 10.20 crore units will be floated to the general public.  As per the issue manager, Nabil Investment, the issue has received a total of 34,141 application applying for 10 crore 42 lakh 26 thousand 730 units. However, a total of 1043 applicants applying for 1 crore 39 lakh 39 thousand 970 units were invalid and thus have been rejected. The remaining 33,098 applicants have been allotted 9 crore 39 lakh 39 thousand 970 excluding the seed fund. Therefore, the fund manager will be adding additional capital for 60,030 units as seed fund, bringing the size of fund to Rs 1.12 arba. Nabil Balance Fund II, managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited and sponsored by Nabil Bank Limited had floated public issue of 12 crore units mutual fund scheme worth Rs 1.2 arba from Baisakh 5, 2076. The mutual fund had issued a total of 12 crore unit of ordinary shares worth Rs 1.20 arba at face value of Rs 10 per unit. Nabil Balance Fund II is the Nabil Investment Banking Limited third mutual fund scheme, and is a 10-years closed-end fund. The scheme will be managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited with Nabil Bank Limited as the fund sponsor. Under the current mutual fund regulation, 15% units i.e. 1.80 crore units are reserved for fund manager and fund sponsor. Remaining 10.20 crore units will be floated to the general public.  As per the issue manager, Nabil Investment, the issue has received a total of 34,141 application applying for 10 crore 42 lakh 26 thousand 730 units. However, a total of 1043 applicants applying for 1 crore 39 lakh 39 thousand 970 units were invalid and thus have been rejected. The remaining 33,098 applicants have been allotted 9 crore 39 lakh 39 thousand 970 excluding the seed fund. Therefore, the fund manager will be adding additional capital for 60,030 units as seed fund, bringing the size of fund to Rs 1.12 arba. Nabil Balance Fund II, managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited and sponsored by Nabil Bank Limited had floated public issue of 12 crore units mutual fund scheme worth Rs 1.2 arba from Baisakh 5, 2076. The mutual fund had issued a total of 12 crore unit of ordinary shares worth Rs 1.20 arba at face value of Rs 10 per unit. Nabil Balance Fund II is the Nabil Investment Banking Limited third mutual fund scheme, and is a 10-years closed-end fund. The scheme will be managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited with Nabil Bank Limited as the fund sponsor. Under the current mutual fund regulation, 15% units i.e. 1.80 crore units are reserved for fund manager and fund sponsor. Remaining 10.20 crore units will be floated to the general public.  As per the issue manager, Nabil Investment, the issue has received a total of 34,141 application applying for 10 crore 42 lakh 26 thousand 730 units. However, a total of 1043 applicants applying for 1 crore 39 lakh 39 thousand 970 units were invalid and thus have been rejected. The remaining 33,098 applicants have been allotted 9 crore 39 lakh 39 thousand 970 excluding the seed fund. Therefore, the fund manager will be adding additional capital for 60,030 units as seed fund, bringing the size of fund to Rs 1.12 arba. "
2019-05-24,Nepal Rastra bank instruct banks to limit call deposits to 10%; total 14 banks crosses the 10% limit till falgun end,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nepal-rastra-bank-instruct-banks-to-limit-call-deposits-to-10-total-14-banks-crosses-the-10-limit-till-falgun-end,"Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has published a circular to A, B and C class Bank and Financial Institutions (BFI's) regarding a limitation of call deposits. NRB has instruct A class BFI’s to limit the call deposits to 10% of total deposits.  Similarly, B and C class BFI’s are allowed to keep maximum 15% call deposits.  All the BFI’s crossing this limit are allowed to bring down the call deposits portion within Ashad end, 2077 and also these BFI’s are now restricted to collects additional call deposits. The call deposits/total deposits ratio of the commercial banks stands at 10.83%. PCBL has highest ratio of 23.79% followed by NCC Bank with 17.81%. ADBL has lowest call deposits/total deposits ratio of 0.97%.  Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has published a circular to A, B and C class Bank and Financial Institutions (BFI's) regarding a limitation of call deposits. NRB has instruct A class BFI’s to limit the call deposits to 10% of total deposits.  Similarly, B and C class BFI’s are allowed to keep maximum 15% call deposits.  All the BFI’s crossing this limit are allowed to bring down the call deposits portion within Ashad end, 2077 and also these BFI’s are now restricted to collects additional call deposits. The call deposits/total deposits ratio of the commercial banks stands at 10.83%. PCBL has highest ratio of 23.79% followed by NCC Bank with 17.81%. ADBL has lowest call deposits/total deposits ratio of 0.97%.  Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has published a circular to A, B and C class Bank and Financial Institutions (BFI's) regarding a limitation of call deposits. NRB has instruct A class BFI’s to limit the call deposits to 10% of total deposits.  Similarly, B and C class BFI’s are allowed to keep maximum 15% call deposits.  All the BFI’s crossing this limit are allowed to bring down the call deposits portion within Ashad end, 2077 and also these BFI’s are now restricted to collects additional call deposits. The call deposits/total deposits ratio of the commercial banks stands at 10.83%. PCBL has highest ratio of 23.79% followed by NCC Bank with 17.81%. ADBL has lowest call deposits/total deposits ratio of 0.97%.  "
2019-05-22,Lumbini General Insurance under bancassurance pact with Nabil Bank,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/lumbini-general-insurance-under-bancassurance-pact-with-nabil-bank,Lumbini General Insurance has signed a MoU of bancassurance with Nabil Bank following which the customers of the bank can now avail all the non-life insurance policies and services of LGIL through all the branches of the bank.  The agreement was signed between Deputy CEO of the insurance company Mr. B.K. Shrestha and Retail Business Chief of the bank Mr. Niroj Sharma amid a program. The MoU signing event was also attended by head of bancassurance section of the bank Mr. Prabin Khanal and Thamel branch manager of the insurance Mr. Subodh Dhungel. Lumbini General Insurance has signed a MoU of bancassurance with Nabil Bank following which the customers of the bank can now avail all the non-life insurance policies and services of LGIL through all the branches of the bank.  The agreement was signed between Deputy CEO of the insurance company Mr. B.K. Shrestha and Retail Business Chief of the bank Mr. Niroj Sharma amid a program. The MoU signing event was also attended by head of bancassurance section of the bank Mr. Prabin Khanal and Thamel branch manager of the insurance Mr. Subodh Dhungel. Lumbini General Insurance has signed a MoU of bancassurance with Nabil Bank following which the customers of the bank can now avail all the non-life insurance policies and services of LGIL through all the branches of the bank.  The agreement was signed between Deputy CEO of the insurance company Mr. B.K. Shrestha and Retail Business Chief of the bank Mr. Niroj Sharma amid a program. The MoU signing event was also attended by head of bancassurance section of the bank Mr. Prabin Khanal and Thamel branch manager of the insurance Mr. Subodh Dhungel. 
2019-05-14,Baisakh’s rise in NEPSE and outstanding performance of commercial banks! What will be your investment decision after comparing the performance on the basis of Q3 reports of commercial banks?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/baisakhs-rise-in-nepse-and-outstanding-performance-of-commercial-banks-what-will-be-your-investment-decision-after-comparing-the-performance-on-the-basis-of-q3-reports-of-commercial-banks,"The third quarter of fiscal year 2075/76 has come to an end. Baisakh month witnessed the rise in NEPSE index from 1180 to around 1320 level. “A” graded 28 commercial banks of the country have published their reports. Experts have anticipated the stock market might have entered the bullish zone. Given the circumstances, let us compare each of these commercial banks on the basis of third quarter reports of FY 2075/76. The following are the key elements necessary in analyzing the third quarter performance of commercial banks: As per the net profit of third quarter of 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 3.50 arba. Similarly, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest net profit of Rs 3.19 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) has the net profit of Rs 2.57 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 49 crore. The industry average net profit of the 28 commercial banks is Rs 1.63 arba. 11 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks has net profit below the industry average.  Compared to the same quarter of last year, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has significantly increased its net profit by 144%. Similarly, Mega Bank Limited has increased the profit by 131.33%.   In the Nepal Financial Reporting Standards (NFRS) format of financial statements, investors will find several types of income and profits. For instance, profit for the period, comprehensive income, distributable profit, profit after regulatory adjustments, etc. However, the actual profit can be determined through specimen “profit/loss for the period” of financial statement. Paid up capital in NFRS refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The central bank of the country has directed these “A” categorized banks to meet the paid up capital requirement of at least 8 arba. Nepal Credit and Commercial Bank (NCCB) and Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) are still to meet the paid up capital requirement. However, Kumari bank has already endorsed 21.25% bonus for last two FY and yet the bonus amount i.e. Rs 1.52 arba left to be adjusted in paid up capital in the published quarterly result.  The bank with highest paid up capital are Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 12.59 arba capital, Mega Bank Limited (MEGA) with Rs 10.39 arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 10.31 arba paid up capital.  With an industry average of Rs 4.56 arba, seven banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 4.56 arba in their reserve fund. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 15.61 arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained second position with Rs 14.09 arba reserve and surplus fund. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB)  is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 10.56 arba. The bank with least reserve and surplus is Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) with a reserve of Rs 1.18 arba.  In an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 93.96 arba as deposit. Only 13 banks are above the average deposit collection. In the banking sector, the deposit collection will play a major role in the upcoming days.   Lack of liquidity is the major concern among most of the commercial banks. So, those banks which are able to retain deposit or increase deposit collection are likely to perform better in the days to come. As of the third quarter of FY 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.72 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 1.54 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.53 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 39.93 arba only.  The average deposit collected by the industry is Rs 93.96 arba. In today’s context, the concern of investor simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of loan portfolio equally matters. The table below shows the accumulated loans which includes loans to BFIs and loans to customers. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.49 kharba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.41 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.33 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 43.09 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 86.90 arba. 13 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 86.90 arba. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with highest net interest income is Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) with income of Rs 7.38 arba followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with income of Rs 5.41 arba and NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with income of Rs 5.32 arba. The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 3.34 arba. 12 out of 28 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income.  Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank increased net interest income by the highest percentage of 120.69% as compared to net profit of the same quarter in the previous year. It is further followed by Mega Bank Limited.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has been able to build the topmost rank in terms of operating profit. The bank attained Rs 4.86 arba solely as profits from operating activities. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) secured a profit if Rs 4.51 arba in the third quarter of this fiscal year. Finally, Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) secured an operating profit of Rs 3.69 arba. The industry average is Rs 2.30 arba with 11 banks above the average benchmark.     The change in operating profit compared to the same quarter in the previous year has been provided in the table below:  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has also highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.50 arba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.07 arba. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) has the third highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.52 arba.   Major indicators: Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 51.81 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest EPS of Rs 47.21 per share. Everest bank limited (EBL) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 36.45 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 8.23 per share.   The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 24.60. 13 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 304.47 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the second position with Rs 250.50. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q3 of FY 2075/76 i.e. Rs 242.38. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 124.86 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 168.84 per share. 11 companies have net worth more than the industry average.   Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the least PE ratio of 10.13 times. It is followed by Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank (NCCB) with PE ratio of 11.26 times and finally Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has third least PE ratio of 11.83 times. Only NCCB is yet to meet the paid up capital requirement. 17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 15.09 times.  Bad loans cost commercial banks a lot of money. Commercial banks need to be able to minimize their non-performing loan. Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) has the least NPL of 0.12. Finally, Everest bank Limited (EBL) has the second least NPL of 0.18. The overall commercial banking industry has average NPL of 1.58.   In a nutshell: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 28 commercial banks as of the third quarter of FY 2075/76: Note: Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited has been excluded while labeling yellow color for the best ranking because Rastriya Banijya Bank has not been listed in NEPSE.  Dear investors, please feel free to share your investment decision after the performance evaluation of key indicators of these commercial banks. The third quarter of fiscal year 2075/76 has come to an end. Baisakh month witnessed the rise in NEPSE index from 1180 to around 1320 level. “A” graded 28 commercial banks of the country have published their reports. Experts have anticipated the stock market might have entered the bullish zone. Given the circumstances, let us compare each of these commercial banks on the basis of third quarter reports of FY 2075/76. The following are the key elements necessary in analyzing the third quarter performance of commercial banks: As per the net profit of third quarter of 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 3.50 arba. Similarly, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest net profit of Rs 3.19 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) has the net profit of Rs 2.57 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 49 crore. The industry average net profit of the 28 commercial banks is Rs 1.63 arba. 11 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks has net profit below the industry average.  Compared to the same quarter of last year, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has significantly increased its net profit by 144%. Similarly, Mega Bank Limited has increased the profit by 131.33%.   In the Nepal Financial Reporting Standards (NFRS) format of financial statements, investors will find several types of income and profits. For instance, profit for the period, comprehensive income, distributable profit, profit after regulatory adjustments, etc. However, the actual profit can be determined through specimen “profit/loss for the period” of financial statement. Paid up capital in NFRS refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The central bank of the country has directed these “A” categorized banks to meet the paid up capital requirement of at least 8 arba. Nepal Credit and Commercial Bank (NCCB) and Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) are still to meet the paid up capital requirement. However, Kumari bank has already endorsed 21.25% bonus for last two FY and yet the bonus amount i.e. Rs 1.52 arba left to be adjusted in paid up capital in the published quarterly result.  The bank with highest paid up capital are Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 12.59 arba capital, Mega Bank Limited (MEGA) with Rs 10.39 arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 10.31 arba paid up capital.  With an industry average of Rs 4.56 arba, seven banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 4.56 arba in their reserve fund. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 15.61 arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained second position with Rs 14.09 arba reserve and surplus fund. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB)  is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 10.56 arba. The bank with least reserve and surplus is Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) with a reserve of Rs 1.18 arba.  In an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 93.96 arba as deposit. Only 13 banks are above the average deposit collection. In the banking sector, the deposit collection will play a major role in the upcoming days.   Lack of liquidity is the major concern among most of the commercial banks. So, those banks which are able to retain deposit or increase deposit collection are likely to perform better in the days to come. As of the third quarter of FY 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.72 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 1.54 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.53 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 39.93 arba only.  The average deposit collected by the industry is Rs 93.96 arba. In today’s context, the concern of investor simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of loan portfolio equally matters. The table below shows the accumulated loans which includes loans to BFIs and loans to customers. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.49 kharba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.41 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.33 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 43.09 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 86.90 arba. 13 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 86.90 arba. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with highest net interest income is Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) with income of Rs 7.38 arba followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with income of Rs 5.41 arba and NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with income of Rs 5.32 arba. The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 3.34 arba. 12 out of 28 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income.  Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank increased net interest income by the highest percentage of 120.69% as compared to net profit of the same quarter in the previous year. It is further followed by Mega Bank Limited.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has been able to build the topmost rank in terms of operating profit. The bank attained Rs 4.86 arba solely as profits from operating activities. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) secured a profit if Rs 4.51 arba in the third quarter of this fiscal year. Finally, Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) secured an operating profit of Rs 3.69 arba. The industry average is Rs 2.30 arba with 11 banks above the average benchmark.     The change in operating profit compared to the same quarter in the previous year has been provided in the table below:  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has also highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.50 arba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.07 arba. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) has the third highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.52 arba.   Major indicators: Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 51.81 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest EPS of Rs 47.21 per share. Everest bank limited (EBL) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 36.45 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 8.23 per share.   The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 24.60. 13 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 304.47 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the second position with Rs 250.50. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q3 of FY 2075/76 i.e. Rs 242.38. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 124.86 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 168.84 per share. 11 companies have net worth more than the industry average.   Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the least PE ratio of 10.13 times. It is followed by Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank (NCCB) with PE ratio of 11.26 times and finally Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has third least PE ratio of 11.83 times. Only NCCB is yet to meet the paid up capital requirement. 17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 15.09 times.  Bad loans cost commercial banks a lot of money. Commercial banks need to be able to minimize their non-performing loan. Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) has the least NPL of 0.12. Finally, Everest bank Limited (EBL) has the second least NPL of 0.18. The overall commercial banking industry has average NPL of 1.58.   In a nutshell: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 28 commercial banks as of the third quarter of FY 2075/76: Note: Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited has been excluded while labeling yellow color for the best ranking because Rastriya Banijya Bank has not been listed in NEPSE.  Dear investors, please feel free to share your investment decision after the performance evaluation of key indicators of these commercial banks. The third quarter of fiscal year 2075/76 has come to an end. Baisakh month witnessed the rise in NEPSE index from 1180 to around 1320 level. “A” graded 28 commercial banks of the country have published their reports. Experts have anticipated the stock market might have entered the bullish zone. Given the circumstances, let us compare each of these commercial banks on the basis of third quarter reports of FY 2075/76. The following are the key elements necessary in analyzing the third quarter performance of commercial banks: As per the net profit of third quarter of 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 3.50 arba. Similarly, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest net profit of Rs 3.19 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) has the net profit of Rs 2.57 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 49 crore. The industry average net profit of the 28 commercial banks is Rs 1.63 arba. 11 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks has net profit below the industry average.  Compared to the same quarter of last year, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) has significantly increased its net profit by 144%. Similarly, Mega Bank Limited has increased the profit by 131.33%.   In the Nepal Financial Reporting Standards (NFRS) format of financial statements, investors will find several types of income and profits. For instance, profit for the period, comprehensive income, distributable profit, profit after regulatory adjustments, etc. However, the actual profit can be determined through specimen “profit/loss for the period” of financial statement. Paid up capital in NFRS refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The central bank of the country has directed these “A” categorized banks to meet the paid up capital requirement of at least 8 arba. Nepal Credit and Commercial Bank (NCCB) and Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) are still to meet the paid up capital requirement. However, Kumari bank has already endorsed 21.25% bonus for last two FY and yet the bonus amount i.e. Rs 1.52 arba left to be adjusted in paid up capital in the published quarterly result.  The bank with highest paid up capital are Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 12.59 arba capital, Mega Bank Limited (MEGA) with Rs 10.39 arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 10.31 arba paid up capital.  With an industry average of Rs 4.56 arba, seven banks stand above the average benchmark of Rs 4.56 arba in their reserve fund. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 15.61 arba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has maintained second position with Rs 14.09 arba reserve and surplus fund. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB)  is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 10.56 arba. The bank with least reserve and surplus is Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) with a reserve of Rs 1.18 arba.  In an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 93.96 arba as deposit. Only 13 banks are above the average deposit collection. In the banking sector, the deposit collection will play a major role in the upcoming days.   Lack of liquidity is the major concern among most of the commercial banks. So, those banks which are able to retain deposit or increase deposit collection are likely to perform better in the days to come. As of the third quarter of FY 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.72 kharba. NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 1.54 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.53 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 39.93 arba only.  The average deposit collected by the industry is Rs 93.96 arba. In today’s context, the concern of investor simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. The nature of loan portfolio equally matters. The table below shows the accumulated loans which includes loans to BFIs and loans to customers. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.49 kharba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.41 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.33 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 43.09 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 86.90 arba. 13 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 86.90 arba. Net interest income is the net earnings of commercial banks through their core business of collecting deposits and lending loans. The bank with highest net interest income is Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) with income of Rs 7.38 arba followed by Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) with income of Rs 5.41 arba and NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with income of Rs 5.32 arba. The industry average net interest income stands at Rs 3.34 arba. 12 out of 28 commercial banks are above the industry average in terms of net interest income.  Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank increased net interest income by the highest percentage of 120.69% as compared to net profit of the same quarter in the previous year. It is further followed by Mega Bank Limited.  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has been able to build the topmost rank in terms of operating profit. The bank attained Rs 4.86 arba solely as profits from operating activities. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) secured a profit if Rs 4.51 arba in the third quarter of this fiscal year. Finally, Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) secured an operating profit of Rs 3.69 arba. The industry average is Rs 2.30 arba with 11 banks above the average benchmark.     The change in operating profit compared to the same quarter in the previous year has been provided in the table below:  Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has also highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.50 arba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest comprehensive income of Rs 3.07 arba. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) has the third highest comprehensive income of Rs 2.52 arba.   Major indicators: Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 51.81 per share. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest EPS of Rs 47.21 per share. Everest bank limited (EBL) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 36.45 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 8.23 per share.   The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 24.60. 13 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 304.47 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the second position with Rs 250.50. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q3 of FY 2075/76 i.e. Rs 242.38. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 124.86 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 168.84 per share. 11 companies have net worth more than the industry average.   Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the least PE ratio of 10.13 times. It is followed by Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank (NCCB) with PE ratio of 11.26 times and finally Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) has third least PE ratio of 11.83 times. Only NCCB is yet to meet the paid up capital requirement. 17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 15.09 times.  Bad loans cost commercial banks a lot of money. Commercial banks need to be able to minimize their non-performing loan. Sanima Bank Limited (SANIMA) has the least NPL of 0.12. Finally, Everest bank Limited (EBL) has the second least NPL of 0.18. The overall commercial banking industry has average NPL of 1.58.   In a nutshell: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 28 commercial banks as of the third quarter of FY 2075/76: Note: Rastriya Banijya Bank Limited has been excluded while labeling yellow color for the best ranking because Rastriya Banijya Bank has not been listed in NEPSE.  Dear investors, please feel free to share your investment decision after the performance evaluation of key indicators of these commercial banks. "
2019-05-10,Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed camp starts accepting application; aims to provide women led and women engaged startups with required resources,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-nari-udhyami-seed-camp-starts-accepting-application-aims-to-provide-women-led-and-women-engaged-startups-with-required-resources,"After the successful legacy of three editions- Women focused, Tech & Tourism, Udhyami Seed Camp is now gearing up for the second edition of its women themed entrepreneurial bootcamp, “Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed Camp”. Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed camp is a business bootcamp dedicated to providing a platform to women co-founders with creative business ideas. Udhyami Innovations, together with Nabil Bank, strongly believes in gender diversity and its potential in Nepal’s growing entrepreneurial ecosystem and that Nepali woman must be given equal opportunities to realize their ideas into ventures. Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed Camp, thus, aims to identify some of the best idea phase startups led by women and provide them with the required resources to help them refine their business idea, grow their network, form profitable business connections and kick-start their entrepreneurial journey. Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed Camp is announced its applications on May 9th, 2019 for the aspiring entrepreneurs teams and early stage startups that are led by at least one woman co-founder and whose ideas provide innovative solutions to existing needs in Nepal.  Anil Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank stated “Udhyami Seed Camp is a platform for young innovators who will be sowing the seeds of their own business, a feat that I feel challenging even for myself – a comfortable employee”. We want to make sure that if given opportunity, women would thrive in bringing different perspectives and eventually create a lasting impact in the entrepreneurship market. The word ‘seed’ in Udhyami Seed Camp holds the most importance as this bootcamp is to sow the seeds of young innovators. Out of all the applicants, the selected maximum 20 teams will go through a tried and tested entrepreneurship program in the bootcamp said Prabha Timilsina, Program Coordinator of the Udhyami Innovations. They will be provided with full-fledged mentorship and guidance from entrepreneurs and experts, access to an entrepreneurial community, assistance in developing their business models, refining and validating their business ideas with the objective of kick starting their ideas into businesses added Sharad K.C. Business and Partnerships Coordinator of the program. On the final day of the bootcamp ‘Pitch Day’, the teams will pitch their business idea to the investors and other selected stakeholders to secure the seed money. Following the bootcamp, the teams shall make an intense research, work on their business model for a month and again shall make an investment pitch ‘Demo Day’ at larger scale.  By bringing together key stakeholders like sector experts, investors, industry supporters, entrepreneurs and innovators, the program aims to create a vibrant and collaborative platform for women entrepreneurs to enhance and empower their women-led businesses with intentions of bringing them into the economic mainstream. Since the inception of the camp in 2017, it has helped 48 teams and 119 individuals realize the Udhyamis inside them, enabled more than 60 senior entrepreneurs and experts to share their insights, and provided investors opportunities to invest in the best entrepreneurial people and ideas. 3 teams have succeeded in securing the investments and are working to scale up their ventures while 5 other teams have received investment commitment from interested investors. Seeing an incredible impact from the program in earlier editions, Nabil Bank is supporting Udhyami Seed Camp with the objective of uplifting the women entrepreneurship in Nepal. The application deadline for the Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed Camp is on 9th June, 2019 where the teams can login to www.udhyamiseedcamp.com/apply to fill up the form. The bootcamp is expected to start shortly after. After the successful legacy of three editions- Women focused, Tech & Tourism, Udhyami Seed Camp is now gearing up for the second edition of its women themed entrepreneurial bootcamp, “Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed Camp”. Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed camp is a business bootcamp dedicated to providing a platform to women co-founders with creative business ideas. Udhyami Innovations, together with Nabil Bank, strongly believes in gender diversity and its potential in Nepal’s growing entrepreneurial ecosystem and that Nepali woman must be given equal opportunities to realize their ideas into ventures. Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed Camp, thus, aims to identify some of the best idea phase startups led by women and provide them with the required resources to help them refine their business idea, grow their network, form profitable business connections and kick-start their entrepreneurial journey. Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed Camp is announced its applications on May 9th, 2019 for the aspiring entrepreneurs teams and early stage startups that are led by at least one woman co-founder and whose ideas provide innovative solutions to existing needs in Nepal.  Anil Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank stated “Udhyami Seed Camp is a platform for young innovators who will be sowing the seeds of their own business, a feat that I feel challenging even for myself – a comfortable employee”. We want to make sure that if given opportunity, women would thrive in bringing different perspectives and eventually create a lasting impact in the entrepreneurship market. The word ‘seed’ in Udhyami Seed Camp holds the most importance as this bootcamp is to sow the seeds of young innovators. Out of all the applicants, the selected maximum 20 teams will go through a tried and tested entrepreneurship program in the bootcamp said Prabha Timilsina, Program Coordinator of the Udhyami Innovations. They will be provided with full-fledged mentorship and guidance from entrepreneurs and experts, access to an entrepreneurial community, assistance in developing their business models, refining and validating their business ideas with the objective of kick starting their ideas into businesses added Sharad K.C. Business and Partnerships Coordinator of the program. On the final day of the bootcamp ‘Pitch Day’, the teams will pitch their business idea to the investors and other selected stakeholders to secure the seed money. Following the bootcamp, the teams shall make an intense research, work on their business model for a month and again shall make an investment pitch ‘Demo Day’ at larger scale.  By bringing together key stakeholders like sector experts, investors, industry supporters, entrepreneurs and innovators, the program aims to create a vibrant and collaborative platform for women entrepreneurs to enhance and empower their women-led businesses with intentions of bringing them into the economic mainstream. Since the inception of the camp in 2017, it has helped 48 teams and 119 individuals realize the Udhyamis inside them, enabled more than 60 senior entrepreneurs and experts to share their insights, and provided investors opportunities to invest in the best entrepreneurial people and ideas. 3 teams have succeeded in securing the investments and are working to scale up their ventures while 5 other teams have received investment commitment from interested investors. Seeing an incredible impact from the program in earlier editions, Nabil Bank is supporting Udhyami Seed Camp with the objective of uplifting the women entrepreneurship in Nepal. The application deadline for the Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed Camp is on 9th June, 2019 where the teams can login to www.udhyamiseedcamp.com/apply to fill up the form. The bootcamp is expected to start shortly after. After the successful legacy of three editions- Women focused, Tech & Tourism, Udhyami Seed Camp is now gearing up for the second edition of its women themed entrepreneurial bootcamp, “Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed Camp”. Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed camp is a business bootcamp dedicated to providing a platform to women co-founders with creative business ideas. Udhyami Innovations, together with Nabil Bank, strongly believes in gender diversity and its potential in Nepal’s growing entrepreneurial ecosystem and that Nepali woman must be given equal opportunities to realize their ideas into ventures. Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed Camp, thus, aims to identify some of the best idea phase startups led by women and provide them with the required resources to help them refine their business idea, grow their network, form profitable business connections and kick-start their entrepreneurial journey. Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed Camp is announced its applications on May 9th, 2019 for the aspiring entrepreneurs teams and early stage startups that are led by at least one woman co-founder and whose ideas provide innovative solutions to existing needs in Nepal.  Anil Shah, CEO of Nabil Bank stated “Udhyami Seed Camp is a platform for young innovators who will be sowing the seeds of their own business, a feat that I feel challenging even for myself – a comfortable employee”. We want to make sure that if given opportunity, women would thrive in bringing different perspectives and eventually create a lasting impact in the entrepreneurship market. The word ‘seed’ in Udhyami Seed Camp holds the most importance as this bootcamp is to sow the seeds of young innovators. Out of all the applicants, the selected maximum 20 teams will go through a tried and tested entrepreneurship program in the bootcamp said Prabha Timilsina, Program Coordinator of the Udhyami Innovations. They will be provided with full-fledged mentorship and guidance from entrepreneurs and experts, access to an entrepreneurial community, assistance in developing their business models, refining and validating their business ideas with the objective of kick starting their ideas into businesses added Sharad K.C. Business and Partnerships Coordinator of the program. On the final day of the bootcamp ‘Pitch Day’, the teams will pitch their business idea to the investors and other selected stakeholders to secure the seed money. Following the bootcamp, the teams shall make an intense research, work on their business model for a month and again shall make an investment pitch ‘Demo Day’ at larger scale.  By bringing together key stakeholders like sector experts, investors, industry supporters, entrepreneurs and innovators, the program aims to create a vibrant and collaborative platform for women entrepreneurs to enhance and empower their women-led businesses with intentions of bringing them into the economic mainstream. Since the inception of the camp in 2017, it has helped 48 teams and 119 individuals realize the Udhyamis inside them, enabled more than 60 senior entrepreneurs and experts to share their insights, and provided investors opportunities to invest in the best entrepreneurial people and ideas. 3 teams have succeeded in securing the investments and are working to scale up their ventures while 5 other teams have received investment commitment from interested investors. Seeing an incredible impact from the program in earlier editions, Nabil Bank is supporting Udhyami Seed Camp with the objective of uplifting the women entrepreneurship in Nepal. The application deadline for the Nabil Nari Udhyami Seed Camp is on 9th June, 2019 where the teams can login to www.udhyamiseedcamp.com/apply to fill up the form. The bootcamp is expected to start shortly after. "
2019-05-07,Nabil Bank earnings crosses Rs 3 arba in Q3 with EPS of Rs 47.21; growth remains stagnant,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-earnings-crosses-rs-3-arba-in-q3-with-eps-of-rs-4721-growth-remains-stagnant,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has reported a 3.18% growth in net profit in the third quarter of FY 2075/76. The bank’s profit has increased from Rs 3.09 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2074/75 to Rs 3.19 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2075/76. The bank’s deposit rises by meager 14% to Rs 1.53  kharba whereas loans and advances have also increased by 17.55% to Rs 1.28 Kharba till the third quarter. The net interest income (core business income) of the bank has also increased by 18.39% to Rs 5.41 arba from Rs 4.56 arba of the corresponding quarter. The bank’s paid up capital stands at Rs 9.01 arba with Rs 12.83 arba as its reserve. The Non-Performing Loan (NPL) stands at 0.64%. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 2.32 arba as distributable profit after Regulatory Adjustments and PL appropriations which can be utilized in distributing dividends to its shareholders. If the profit growth of this quarter continues in fourth quarter then the company will have Rs 3.09 arba (approx.) as distributable profit. This means Nabil Bank can distribute around 34% (approx.) dividend from the earnings of FY 2075/76 next year if other regulatory reserve requirements are not required. In the third quarter, the annualized EPS of the bank stands at Rs 47.21. The net worth per share stands at Rs 242.38 and qtr end PE ratio stands at 15.58 times. Click here for Q3 report: Major Highlights:  * Figure are of Immediate Previous Year Ending (Audited)  * Published EPS, Networth and PE may differ. As per NFRS standard, Weighted average number of shares is taken while calculating EPS, Networth and PE but we have taken number of shares as per Q3 end paid up capital.   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has reported a 3.18% growth in net profit in the third quarter of FY 2075/76. The bank’s profit has increased from Rs 3.09 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2074/75 to Rs 3.19 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2075/76. The bank’s deposit rises by meager 14% to Rs 1.53  kharba whereas loans and advances have also increased by 17.55% to Rs 1.28 Kharba till the third quarter. The net interest income (core business income) of the bank has also increased by 18.39% to Rs 5.41 arba from Rs 4.56 arba of the corresponding quarter. The bank’s paid up capital stands at Rs 9.01 arba with Rs 12.83 arba as its reserve. The Non-Performing Loan (NPL) stands at 0.64%. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 2.32 arba as distributable profit after Regulatory Adjustments and PL appropriations which can be utilized in distributing dividends to its shareholders. If the profit growth of this quarter continues in fourth quarter then the company will have Rs 3.09 arba (approx.) as distributable profit. This means Nabil Bank can distribute around 34% (approx.) dividend from the earnings of FY 2075/76 next year if other regulatory reserve requirements are not required. In the third quarter, the annualized EPS of the bank stands at Rs 47.21. The net worth per share stands at Rs 242.38 and qtr end PE ratio stands at 15.58 times. Click here for Q3 report: Major Highlights:  * Figure are of Immediate Previous Year Ending (Audited)  * Published EPS, Networth and PE may differ. As per NFRS standard, Weighted average number of shares is taken while calculating EPS, Networth and PE but we have taken number of shares as per Q3 end paid up capital.   Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has reported a 3.18% growth in net profit in the third quarter of FY 2075/76. The bank’s profit has increased from Rs 3.09 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2074/75 to Rs 3.19 arba in the third quarter of the fiscal year 2075/76. The bank’s deposit rises by meager 14% to Rs 1.53  kharba whereas loans and advances have also increased by 17.55% to Rs 1.28 Kharba till the third quarter. The net interest income (core business income) of the bank has also increased by 18.39% to Rs 5.41 arba from Rs 4.56 arba of the corresponding quarter. The bank’s paid up capital stands at Rs 9.01 arba with Rs 12.83 arba as its reserve. The Non-Performing Loan (NPL) stands at 0.64%. In the same quarter, the bank has Rs 2.32 arba as distributable profit after Regulatory Adjustments and PL appropriations which can be utilized in distributing dividends to its shareholders. If the profit growth of this quarter continues in fourth quarter then the company will have Rs 3.09 arba (approx.) as distributable profit. This means Nabil Bank can distribute around 34% (approx.) dividend from the earnings of FY 2075/76 next year if other regulatory reserve requirements are not required. In the third quarter, the annualized EPS of the bank stands at Rs 47.21. The net worth per share stands at Rs 242.38 and qtr end PE ratio stands at 15.58 times. Click here for Q3 report: Major Highlights:  * Figure are of Immediate Previous Year Ending (Audited)  * Published EPS, Networth and PE may differ. As per NFRS standard, Weighted average number of shares is taken while calculating EPS, Networth and PE but we have taken number of shares as per Q3 end paid up capital.   "
2019-05-01,Nabil Bank receives reaffirmed rating of  ICRANP-IR AA from ICRA Nepal; rating indicates high degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-receives-reaffirmed-rating-of-icranp-ir-aa-from-icra-nepal-rating-indicates-high-degree-of-safety-regarding-timely-servicing-of-financial-obligations,"ICRA Nepal Limited has reaffirmed a [ICRANP-IR] AA- (Pronounced as ICRA NP IR Double A Minus) Issuer Rating of Nabil Bank Limited. This rating is considered to have high degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Entities with this rating carry very low credit risk. The Rating is only an opinion on the general creditworthiness of the rated entity and not specific to any particular debt instrument. For the Rating categories [ICRANP-IR] AA through to [ICRANP-IR] C the sign of + (plus) or – (minus) may be appended to the Rating symbols to indicate their relative position within the Rating categories concerned. Thus the Rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA+ is one notch higher than [ICRANP-IR] AA, while [ICRANP-IR] AA- is one notch lower than [ICRANP-IR] AA. ICRA Nepal Limited has reaffirmed a [ICRANP-IR] AA- (Pronounced as ICRA NP IR Double A Minus) Issuer Rating of Nabil Bank Limited. This rating is considered to have high degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Entities with this rating carry very low credit risk. The Rating is only an opinion on the general creditworthiness of the rated entity and not specific to any particular debt instrument. For the Rating categories [ICRANP-IR] AA through to [ICRANP-IR] C the sign of + (plus) or – (minus) may be appended to the Rating symbols to indicate their relative position within the Rating categories concerned. Thus the Rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA+ is one notch higher than [ICRANP-IR] AA, while [ICRANP-IR] AA- is one notch lower than [ICRANP-IR] AA. ICRA Nepal Limited has reaffirmed a [ICRANP-IR] AA- (Pronounced as ICRA NP IR Double A Minus) Issuer Rating of Nabil Bank Limited. This rating is considered to have high degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Entities with this rating carry very low credit risk. The Rating is only an opinion on the general creditworthiness of the rated entity and not specific to any particular debt instrument. For the Rating categories [ICRANP-IR] AA through to [ICRANP-IR] C the sign of + (plus) or – (minus) may be appended to the Rating symbols to indicate their relative position within the Rating categories concerned. Thus the Rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA+ is one notch higher than [ICRANP-IR] AA, while [ICRANP-IR] AA- is one notch lower than [ICRANP-IR] AA. "
2019-04-29,Nabil Bank and Play for Deprived Children Nepal inks MOU to encourage engagement of youths in basketball,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-play-for-deprived-children-nepal-inks-mou-to-encourage-engagement-of-youths-in-basketball,"Nabil Bank has entered into an agreement with Play for Deprived Children Nepal (PDCN). With the signing of this agreement, Nabil Bank has become Banking Partner of Nepal Basketball League to encourage the engagement of youths in sports especially basketball.   Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of the Bank and Mr. Arun Karki, Chairman of Play for Deprived Children Nepal signed the agreement today in an event organized at Nepal Police Training Camp, Maharajgunj, Kathmandu along with the captains of National Team Ms. Sadina Shrestha and Mr. Sadhish Pradhan. Nepal Basketball League was started from 28 April, 2019 and has set its finals on 22 July, 2019. As informed by the Chairman of PDCN, the tournament is going to be the held for 55 days. Winners of the tournament will be awarded with cash prize of Rs. 200,000, Rs.100,000 and Rs.50,000 respectively. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of the Bank said, “We are delighted to be the Banking Partners of the Nepal Basketball League as we are confident that the structure of the tournament will ensure that the game of basketball gains momentum across the nation. Nabil Bank is privileged to be part of the league and looks forward to a truly incredible tournament.”   Nabil Bank has entered into an agreement with Play for Deprived Children Nepal (PDCN). With the signing of this agreement, Nabil Bank has become Banking Partner of Nepal Basketball League to encourage the engagement of youths in sports especially basketball.   Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of the Bank and Mr. Arun Karki, Chairman of Play for Deprived Children Nepal signed the agreement today in an event organized at Nepal Police Training Camp, Maharajgunj, Kathmandu along with the captains of National Team Ms. Sadina Shrestha and Mr. Sadhish Pradhan. Nepal Basketball League was started from 28 April, 2019 and has set its finals on 22 July, 2019. As informed by the Chairman of PDCN, the tournament is going to be the held for 55 days. Winners of the tournament will be awarded with cash prize of Rs. 200,000, Rs.100,000 and Rs.50,000 respectively. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of the Bank said, “We are delighted to be the Banking Partners of the Nepal Basketball League as we are confident that the structure of the tournament will ensure that the game of basketball gains momentum across the nation. Nabil Bank is privileged to be part of the league and looks forward to a truly incredible tournament.”   Nabil Bank has entered into an agreement with Play for Deprived Children Nepal (PDCN). With the signing of this agreement, Nabil Bank has become Banking Partner of Nepal Basketball League to encourage the engagement of youths in sports especially basketball.   Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of the Bank and Mr. Arun Karki, Chairman of Play for Deprived Children Nepal signed the agreement today in an event organized at Nepal Police Training Camp, Maharajgunj, Kathmandu along with the captains of National Team Ms. Sadina Shrestha and Mr. Sadhish Pradhan. Nepal Basketball League was started from 28 April, 2019 and has set its finals on 22 July, 2019. As informed by the Chairman of PDCN, the tournament is going to be the held for 55 days. Winners of the tournament will be awarded with cash prize of Rs. 200,000, Rs.100,000 and Rs.50,000 respectively. Mr. Anil Keshary Shah, Chief Executive Officer of the Bank said, “We are delighted to be the Banking Partners of the Nepal Basketball League as we are confident that the structure of the tournament will ensure that the game of basketball gains momentum across the nation. Nabil Bank is privileged to be part of the league and looks forward to a truly incredible tournament.”   "
2019-04-18,"Nabil Balanced Fund II opens from today; If you haven't applied yet, things to know before you do",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-balanced-fund-ii-opens-from-today-if-you-havent-applied-yet-things-to-know-before-you-do,"Company profile Nabil Balanced Fund II is a close-end mutual fund scheme with a corpus of Rs 1.2 arba for a period of 10 years. It being sponsored by Nabil Bank Limited and managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited. Nabil Bank is ""A"" Class commercial bank. It was registered in 2041 BS under Company Registrar as a Public Limited Company. The promoters hold 70% of shares and the remaining 30% is floated to general public. It started commercial operations from July 1984 AD as Nepal Arab Bank Limited but the name was changed to Nabil Bank, following the withdrawal of its joint venture partner Emirates Bank International in 1997. As per the report published by ICRA Nepal, Nabil has its presence throughout the country through its 74 branches, two extension counters and 126 ATMs. It has a market share of 5.65% in terms of deposit base and 5.54% of its total advances is in the Nepalese commercial banking industry, as on mid-Oct-2018. Nabil reported a profit after tax of ~NPR 4,055 million during 2017-18 over an asset base of NPR 157,486 million as of mid-July-2018. Similarly, Nabil Invest is the subsidiary merchant bank of Nabil whose 52% ownership lies with Nabil Bank. It was registered under Company Act 2063 on 2066 BS. The various services provided by Nabil Invest are issue management, underwriting, share registrar, investment management and financial consultancy services. The company is also licensed to function as Mutual fund scheme manager and Depository since 2069 BS. About the issue Nabil Balance Fund II, managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited and sponsored by Nabil Bank Limited is floating its public issue of 12 crore units mutual fund scheme worth Rs 1.2 arba from today (Baisakh 5, 2076). The mutual fund will be issuing a total of 12 crore unit of ordinary shares worth Rs 1.20 arba at face value of Rs 10 per unit. Interested people must apply for a minimum of 100 units of share and they can apply for up to 1.2 crore units. Interested applicants can apply through ASBA-approved banks from all 77 districts across the country. Nabil Balance Fund II is the Nabil Investment Banking Limited third mutual fund scheme, and is a 10-years closed-end fund. The scheme will be managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited with Nabil Bank Limited as the fund sponsor. Under the current mutual fund regulation, 15% units i.e. 1.80 crore units are reserved for fund manager and fund sponsor. Remaining 10.20 crore units will be floated to the general public.  Dividend Payout The dividend will be paid out of realized profits in proportion to investments made. The Retained Earnings (if any) will be re-invested. Investment objective To generate optimum returns by minimizing market risks by investing in a mix of securities comprising of equity and fixed income securities as allowed by prevailing rules/regulations on Mutual Fund. Supervisors of NBF II  The general asset allocation of the proposed Scheme's portfolio  Capital structure of Nabil Invest  Shareholding structure of Nabil Invest  Board of Directors of Nabil Invest  Management team of Nabil Invest  Areas of investments ICRA Rating of Nabil Bank ICRA Nepal has reaffirmed the rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA- (pronounced ICRA NP Issuer Rating Double A minus) to Nabil Bank Limited (Nabil). The entities with [ICRANP-IR] AA- rating are considered as high credit-quality ratings assigned by ICRA Nepal. The rated entity carries a low credit risk. The rating is only an opinion on the general creditworthiness of the rated entity and not specific to any particular debt instrument. The rating reaffirmation factors in Nabil’s ability to maintain its competitive positioning in the industry; as reflected in the steady performance indicators of the bank. The bank’s strong competitive positioning coupled with its established track record and adequate presence across the country continues to support business growth and profitability. Nonetheless, the rating concerns arise from the recent liquidity challenges faced by the Nepalese banking industry, including Nabil, because of higher growth in banking sector credit vis-à-vis deposit during the past four to five years. As a result, Nabil’s liquidity ratio has come down, with commensurate increase in the credit-to-deposit ratio. A higher credit-to-deposit ratio has helped Nabil offset the impact of the rising cost of fund, thereby stabilising net interest margin (NIMs) and supporting profitability. Nabil’s average credit growth during the past three years, ending FY2018 stood at 19%, lower than the industry average of 24% over the period. Nabil’s credit growth has picked up during past 12-18 months (23% during FY2018 and 46% annualised during Q1 FY2019), leading to a marginal improvement in market share. Nabil’s credit portfolio of ~NPR 125 billion as of mid-October 2018, accounted for ~4.8% of Nepalese banking industry credit (vs. ~4.5% in mid-April 2017, when last rated). Going forward, the low cost of fund and consequent pricing advantage under the ‘Base Rate plus’ regime is expected to support Nabil’s plan to penetrate along the SME and the retail segment. However, its ability to achieve the targeted SME and retail segment growth with relatively moderate franchise network across the country remains to be seen. Nabil’s asset quality indicators have improved during the past 12-18 months, aided by interim credit growth, low fresh NPA generation rate and steady NPA recovery rate. Nabil’s deposit profile has been affected by the liquidity shortage seen in the banking system since January 2017. The deposit price-war among the industry players (especially in the term deposits) has led to the decline in the CASA deposits for Nabil (from ~60% in mid-July 2017 to ~48% in mid-July 2018) with a corresponding increase in higher priced term deposits. Nabil’s liquidity position has moderated during the past one to two years because of the ongoing shortage of lendable funds. Nabil’s liquid assets as a percentage of total liabilities stood at ~22% on mid-October 2018 vs. ~26% in mid-July 2018 and ~33% on mid-July 2017.  Nabil’s profitability indicators continue to remain strong because of healthy NIMs (~4% during past 12-18 months). The increase in credit to deposit ratio of the bank has helped maintain stable NIMs, offsetting the impact of rising cost of fund. Nabil’s return on assets during FY2018 stood at ~2.7% (similar to FY2017) with a return on net worth of ~25% and ~28% during those periods. Nabil’s profitability also remains supported by a healthy non-interest income level (~1.35% of ATA during FY2018), low operating expense ratio and low credit cost.  Source: (https://icranepal.com/releases.php) ICRA Rating of Nabil Invest ICRA Nepal has reaffirmed “[ICRANP] AMC Quality 3+ (AMC3+)” (pronounced ICRA NP Asset Management Company Quality Three Plus) fund management quality rating (FMQR) assigned to Nabil Investment Banking Limited (Nabil Invest), indicating adequate assurance on management quality.  The adequate assurance on management quality factors in the ownership and continued technical support of Nabil Bank Limited along with established organisational structure, system and processes for current level of operations. The FMQR also factors in satisfactory investor service practices of Nabil Invest & the processes followed by it in generating healthy returns for first scheme managed by it while the second scheme has remained impacted by significant downturn in market index since its launch. The rating action also derives comfort from experienced senior management and fund supervisors involved in the management and supervision of the current mutual fund schemes under the company. However, the requisite extent of involvement of supervisors in managing the schemes is not clearly mandated by strong legal framework and hence remains a rating concern. The FMQR is nonetheless constrained by the divestment of a chunk of stake by Nabil Bank (from ~74% earlier to 52% as of now with concomitant increase in stake of CG Finco); however, extent of support from the sponsor has remained similar which provides some comfort. The rating is also constrained by the company’s moderate track record in Nepalese Capital market as merchant banker, portfolio manager and fund manager along with uncertain operating environment amidst volatility in the market, evolving risk management framework with respect to fund management, absence of separate risk management committee, unviability of hedging tools for investment in the market, evolving nature of mutual fund industry and low awareness about the mutual fund among general investor. Source: (https://icranepal.com/releases.php) Financial performance of Nabil Bank  Financial performance of Nabil Invest  Performance of Nabil Balanced Fund I (NBF I) Nabil Balance Fund-1 was a closed end 5 years mutual fund scheme of Rs 75 crore managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited and sponsored by Nabil Bank Limited. The mutual fund scheme was started on Chaitra 30, 2069 and matured on Chaitra 29, 2074.  Performance of Nabil Equity Fund (NEF) Nabil Equity Fund (NEF), a closed-end 7 years mutual fund scheme managed by Nabil Investment Limited with Nabil Bank Limited as the fund sponsor. The fund began with a corpus of Rs 1.25 arba.  Projected performance of NBF II on major indicators  Conclusion All the information stated above might have shed some light on what to expect from NBF II. The issue has opened from Baisakh 05, 2076 (today) and interested investors can apply from any C-ASBA approved banks or Mero Share. Based on the previously managed Mutual Funds Schemes, Nabil Invest has given more than fair return to NBF I but the ongoing NEF's performance is not so good. The internal factor are surely there, but a huge factor is MARKET RISK. NBF I operated from 2069 to 2074, so it got to see the bull of 1800. However, the market is in bearish trend now, because of which not only NEF but almost all of 13 mutual funds are having a hard time increasing their NAV to par of Rs 10. Many experts say, now the bull is near and some say the bear will last some more and everyone and a reasoning about what and how they are estimating. Thus, the projected returns of NBF II is given in earlier section now you have the decision to make whether or not to invest. Company profile Nabil Balanced Fund II is a close-end mutual fund scheme with a corpus of Rs 1.2 arba for a period of 10 years. It being sponsored by Nabil Bank Limited and managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited. Nabil Bank is ""A"" Class commercial bank. It was registered in 2041 BS under Company Registrar as a Public Limited Company. The promoters hold 70% of shares and the remaining 30% is floated to general public. It started commercial operations from July 1984 AD as Nepal Arab Bank Limited but the name was changed to Nabil Bank, following the withdrawal of its joint venture partner Emirates Bank International in 1997. As per the report published by ICRA Nepal, Nabil has its presence throughout the country through its 74 branches, two extension counters and 126 ATMs. It has a market share of 5.65% in terms of deposit base and 5.54% of its total advances is in the Nepalese commercial banking industry, as on mid-Oct-2018. Nabil reported a profit after tax of ~NPR 4,055 million during 2017-18 over an asset base of NPR 157,486 million as of mid-July-2018. Similarly, Nabil Invest is the subsidiary merchant bank of Nabil whose 52% ownership lies with Nabil Bank. It was registered under Company Act 2063 on 2066 BS. The various services provided by Nabil Invest are issue management, underwriting, share registrar, investment management and financial consultancy services. The company is also licensed to function as Mutual fund scheme manager and Depository since 2069 BS. About the issue Nabil Balance Fund II, managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited and sponsored by Nabil Bank Limited is floating its public issue of 12 crore units mutual fund scheme worth Rs 1.2 arba from today (Baisakh 5, 2076). The mutual fund will be issuing a total of 12 crore unit of ordinary shares worth Rs 1.20 arba at face value of Rs 10 per unit. Interested people must apply for a minimum of 100 units of share and they can apply for up to 1.2 crore units. Interested applicants can apply through ASBA-approved banks from all 77 districts across the country. Nabil Balance Fund II is the Nabil Investment Banking Limited third mutual fund scheme, and is a 10-years closed-end fund. The scheme will be managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited with Nabil Bank Limited as the fund sponsor. Under the current mutual fund regulation, 15% units i.e. 1.80 crore units are reserved for fund manager and fund sponsor. Remaining 10.20 crore units will be floated to the general public.  Dividend Payout The dividend will be paid out of realized profits in proportion to investments made. The Retained Earnings (if any) will be re-invested. Investment objective To generate optimum returns by minimizing market risks by investing in a mix of securities comprising of equity and fixed income securities as allowed by prevailing rules/regulations on Mutual Fund. Supervisors of NBF II  The general asset allocation of the proposed Scheme's portfolio  Capital structure of Nabil Invest  Shareholding structure of Nabil Invest  Board of Directors of Nabil Invest  Management team of Nabil Invest  Areas of investments ICRA Rating of Nabil Bank ICRA Nepal has reaffirmed the rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA- (pronounced ICRA NP Issuer Rating Double A minus) to Nabil Bank Limited (Nabil). The entities with [ICRANP-IR] AA- rating are considered as high credit-quality ratings assigned by ICRA Nepal. The rated entity carries a low credit risk. The rating is only an opinion on the general creditworthiness of the rated entity and not specific to any particular debt instrument. The rating reaffirmation factors in Nabil’s ability to maintain its competitive positioning in the industry; as reflected in the steady performance indicators of the bank. The bank’s strong competitive positioning coupled with its established track record and adequate presence across the country continues to support business growth and profitability. Nonetheless, the rating concerns arise from the recent liquidity challenges faced by the Nepalese banking industry, including Nabil, because of higher growth in banking sector credit vis-à-vis deposit during the past four to five years. As a result, Nabil’s liquidity ratio has come down, with commensurate increase in the credit-to-deposit ratio. A higher credit-to-deposit ratio has helped Nabil offset the impact of the rising cost of fund, thereby stabilising net interest margin (NIMs) and supporting profitability. Nabil’s average credit growth during the past three years, ending FY2018 stood at 19%, lower than the industry average of 24% over the period. Nabil’s credit growth has picked up during past 12-18 months (23% during FY2018 and 46% annualised during Q1 FY2019), leading to a marginal improvement in market share. Nabil’s credit portfolio of ~NPR 125 billion as of mid-October 2018, accounted for ~4.8% of Nepalese banking industry credit (vs. ~4.5% in mid-April 2017, when last rated). Going forward, the low cost of fund and consequent pricing advantage under the ‘Base Rate plus’ regime is expected to support Nabil’s plan to penetrate along the SME and the retail segment. However, its ability to achieve the targeted SME and retail segment growth with relatively moderate franchise network across the country remains to be seen. Nabil’s asset quality indicators have improved during the past 12-18 months, aided by interim credit growth, low fresh NPA generation rate and steady NPA recovery rate. Nabil’s deposit profile has been affected by the liquidity shortage seen in the banking system since January 2017. The deposit price-war among the industry players (especially in the term deposits) has led to the decline in the CASA deposits for Nabil (from ~60% in mid-July 2017 to ~48% in mid-July 2018) with a corresponding increase in higher priced term deposits. Nabil’s liquidity position has moderated during the past one to two years because of the ongoing shortage of lendable funds. Nabil’s liquid assets as a percentage of total liabilities stood at ~22% on mid-October 2018 vs. ~26% in mid-July 2018 and ~33% on mid-July 2017.  Nabil’s profitability indicators continue to remain strong because of healthy NIMs (~4% during past 12-18 months). The increase in credit to deposit ratio of the bank has helped maintain stable NIMs, offsetting the impact of rising cost of fund. Nabil’s return on assets during FY2018 stood at ~2.7% (similar to FY2017) with a return on net worth of ~25% and ~28% during those periods. Nabil’s profitability also remains supported by a healthy non-interest income level (~1.35% of ATA during FY2018), low operating expense ratio and low credit cost.  Source: (https://icranepal.com/releases.php) ICRA Rating of Nabil Invest ICRA Nepal has reaffirmed “[ICRANP] AMC Quality 3+ (AMC3+)” (pronounced ICRA NP Asset Management Company Quality Three Plus) fund management quality rating (FMQR) assigned to Nabil Investment Banking Limited (Nabil Invest), indicating adequate assurance on management quality.  The adequate assurance on management quality factors in the ownership and continued technical support of Nabil Bank Limited along with established organisational structure, system and processes for current level of operations. The FMQR also factors in satisfactory investor service practices of Nabil Invest & the processes followed by it in generating healthy returns for first scheme managed by it while the second scheme has remained impacted by significant downturn in market index since its launch. The rating action also derives comfort from experienced senior management and fund supervisors involved in the management and supervision of the current mutual fund schemes under the company. However, the requisite extent of involvement of supervisors in managing the schemes is not clearly mandated by strong legal framework and hence remains a rating concern. The FMQR is nonetheless constrained by the divestment of a chunk of stake by Nabil Bank (from ~74% earlier to 52% as of now with concomitant increase in stake of CG Finco); however, extent of support from the sponsor has remained similar which provides some comfort. The rating is also constrained by the company’s moderate track record in Nepalese Capital market as merchant banker, portfolio manager and fund manager along with uncertain operating environment amidst volatility in the market, evolving risk management framework with respect to fund management, absence of separate risk management committee, unviability of hedging tools for investment in the market, evolving nature of mutual fund industry and low awareness about the mutual fund among general investor. Source: (https://icranepal.com/releases.php) Financial performance of Nabil Bank  Financial performance of Nabil Invest  Performance of Nabil Balanced Fund I (NBF I) Nabil Balance Fund-1 was a closed end 5 years mutual fund scheme of Rs 75 crore managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited and sponsored by Nabil Bank Limited. The mutual fund scheme was started on Chaitra 30, 2069 and matured on Chaitra 29, 2074.  Performance of Nabil Equity Fund (NEF) Nabil Equity Fund (NEF), a closed-end 7 years mutual fund scheme managed by Nabil Investment Limited with Nabil Bank Limited as the fund sponsor. The fund began with a corpus of Rs 1.25 arba.  Projected performance of NBF II on major indicators  Conclusion All the information stated above might have shed some light on what to expect from NBF II. The issue has opened from Baisakh 05, 2076 (today) and interested investors can apply from any C-ASBA approved banks or Mero Share. Based on the previously managed Mutual Funds Schemes, Nabil Invest has given more than fair return to NBF I but the ongoing NEF's performance is not so good. The internal factor are surely there, but a huge factor is MARKET RISK. NBF I operated from 2069 to 2074, so it got to see the bull of 1800. However, the market is in bearish trend now, because of which not only NEF but almost all of 13 mutual funds are having a hard time increasing their NAV to par of Rs 10. Many experts say, now the bull is near and some say the bear will last some more and everyone and a reasoning about what and how they are estimating. Thus, the projected returns of NBF II is given in earlier section now you have the decision to make whether or not to invest. Company profile Nabil Balanced Fund II is a close-end mutual fund scheme with a corpus of Rs 1.2 arba for a period of 10 years. It being sponsored by Nabil Bank Limited and managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited. Nabil Bank is ""A"" Class commercial bank. It was registered in 2041 BS under Company Registrar as a Public Limited Company. The promoters hold 70% of shares and the remaining 30% is floated to general public. It started commercial operations from July 1984 AD as Nepal Arab Bank Limited but the name was changed to Nabil Bank, following the withdrawal of its joint venture partner Emirates Bank International in 1997. As per the report published by ICRA Nepal, Nabil has its presence throughout the country through its 74 branches, two extension counters and 126 ATMs. It has a market share of 5.65% in terms of deposit base and 5.54% of its total advances is in the Nepalese commercial banking industry, as on mid-Oct-2018. Nabil reported a profit after tax of ~NPR 4,055 million during 2017-18 over an asset base of NPR 157,486 million as of mid-July-2018. Similarly, Nabil Invest is the subsidiary merchant bank of Nabil whose 52% ownership lies with Nabil Bank. It was registered under Company Act 2063 on 2066 BS. The various services provided by Nabil Invest are issue management, underwriting, share registrar, investment management and financial consultancy services. The company is also licensed to function as Mutual fund scheme manager and Depository since 2069 BS. About the issue Nabil Balance Fund II, managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited and sponsored by Nabil Bank Limited is floating its public issue of 12 crore units mutual fund scheme worth Rs 1.2 arba from today (Baisakh 5, 2076). The mutual fund will be issuing a total of 12 crore unit of ordinary shares worth Rs 1.20 arba at face value of Rs 10 per unit. Interested people must apply for a minimum of 100 units of share and they can apply for up to 1.2 crore units. Interested applicants can apply through ASBA-approved banks from all 77 districts across the country. Nabil Balance Fund II is the Nabil Investment Banking Limited third mutual fund scheme, and is a 10-years closed-end fund. The scheme will be managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited with Nabil Bank Limited as the fund sponsor. Under the current mutual fund regulation, 15% units i.e. 1.80 crore units are reserved for fund manager and fund sponsor. Remaining 10.20 crore units will be floated to the general public.  Dividend Payout The dividend will be paid out of realized profits in proportion to investments made. The Retained Earnings (if any) will be re-invested. Investment objective To generate optimum returns by minimizing market risks by investing in a mix of securities comprising of equity and fixed income securities as allowed by prevailing rules/regulations on Mutual Fund. Supervisors of NBF II  The general asset allocation of the proposed Scheme's portfolio  Capital structure of Nabil Invest  Shareholding structure of Nabil Invest  Board of Directors of Nabil Invest  Management team of Nabil Invest  Areas of investments ICRA Rating of Nabil Bank ICRA Nepal has reaffirmed the rating of [ICRANP-IR] AA- (pronounced ICRA NP Issuer Rating Double A minus) to Nabil Bank Limited (Nabil). The entities with [ICRANP-IR] AA- rating are considered as high credit-quality ratings assigned by ICRA Nepal. The rated entity carries a low credit risk. The rating is only an opinion on the general creditworthiness of the rated entity and not specific to any particular debt instrument. The rating reaffirmation factors in Nabil’s ability to maintain its competitive positioning in the industry; as reflected in the steady performance indicators of the bank. The bank’s strong competitive positioning coupled with its established track record and adequate presence across the country continues to support business growth and profitability. Nonetheless, the rating concerns arise from the recent liquidity challenges faced by the Nepalese banking industry, including Nabil, because of higher growth in banking sector credit vis-à-vis deposit during the past four to five years. As a result, Nabil’s liquidity ratio has come down, with commensurate increase in the credit-to-deposit ratio. A higher credit-to-deposit ratio has helped Nabil offset the impact of the rising cost of fund, thereby stabilising net interest margin (NIMs) and supporting profitability. Nabil’s average credit growth during the past three years, ending FY2018 stood at 19%, lower than the industry average of 24% over the period. Nabil’s credit growth has picked up during past 12-18 months (23% during FY2018 and 46% annualised during Q1 FY2019), leading to a marginal improvement in market share. Nabil’s credit portfolio of ~NPR 125 billion as of mid-October 2018, accounted for ~4.8% of Nepalese banking industry credit (vs. ~4.5% in mid-April 2017, when last rated). Going forward, the low cost of fund and consequent pricing advantage under the ‘Base Rate plus’ regime is expected to support Nabil’s plan to penetrate along the SME and the retail segment. However, its ability to achieve the targeted SME and retail segment growth with relatively moderate franchise network across the country remains to be seen. Nabil’s asset quality indicators have improved during the past 12-18 months, aided by interim credit growth, low fresh NPA generation rate and steady NPA recovery rate. Nabil’s deposit profile has been affected by the liquidity shortage seen in the banking system since January 2017. The deposit price-war among the industry players (especially in the term deposits) has led to the decline in the CASA deposits for Nabil (from ~60% in mid-July 2017 to ~48% in mid-July 2018) with a corresponding increase in higher priced term deposits. Nabil’s liquidity position has moderated during the past one to two years because of the ongoing shortage of lendable funds. Nabil’s liquid assets as a percentage of total liabilities stood at ~22% on mid-October 2018 vs. ~26% in mid-July 2018 and ~33% on mid-July 2017.  Nabil’s profitability indicators continue to remain strong because of healthy NIMs (~4% during past 12-18 months). The increase in credit to deposit ratio of the bank has helped maintain stable NIMs, offsetting the impact of rising cost of fund. Nabil’s return on assets during FY2018 stood at ~2.7% (similar to FY2017) with a return on net worth of ~25% and ~28% during those periods. Nabil’s profitability also remains supported by a healthy non-interest income level (~1.35% of ATA during FY2018), low operating expense ratio and low credit cost.  Source: (https://icranepal.com/releases.php) ICRA Rating of Nabil Invest ICRA Nepal has reaffirmed “[ICRANP] AMC Quality 3+ (AMC3+)” (pronounced ICRA NP Asset Management Company Quality Three Plus) fund management quality rating (FMQR) assigned to Nabil Investment Banking Limited (Nabil Invest), indicating adequate assurance on management quality.  The adequate assurance on management quality factors in the ownership and continued technical support of Nabil Bank Limited along with established organisational structure, system and processes for current level of operations. The FMQR also factors in satisfactory investor service practices of Nabil Invest & the processes followed by it in generating healthy returns for first scheme managed by it while the second scheme has remained impacted by significant downturn in market index since its launch. The rating action also derives comfort from experienced senior management and fund supervisors involved in the management and supervision of the current mutual fund schemes under the company. However, the requisite extent of involvement of supervisors in managing the schemes is not clearly mandated by strong legal framework and hence remains a rating concern. The FMQR is nonetheless constrained by the divestment of a chunk of stake by Nabil Bank (from ~74% earlier to 52% as of now with concomitant increase in stake of CG Finco); however, extent of support from the sponsor has remained similar which provides some comfort. The rating is also constrained by the company’s moderate track record in Nepalese Capital market as merchant banker, portfolio manager and fund manager along with uncertain operating environment amidst volatility in the market, evolving risk management framework with respect to fund management, absence of separate risk management committee, unviability of hedging tools for investment in the market, evolving nature of mutual fund industry and low awareness about the mutual fund among general investor. Source: (https://icranepal.com/releases.php) Financial performance of Nabil Bank  Financial performance of Nabil Invest  Performance of Nabil Balanced Fund I (NBF I) Nabil Balance Fund-1 was a closed end 5 years mutual fund scheme of Rs 75 crore managed by Nabil Investment Banking Limited and sponsored by Nabil Bank Limited. The mutual fund scheme was started on Chaitra 30, 2069 and matured on Chaitra 29, 2074.  Performance of Nabil Equity Fund (NEF) Nabil Equity Fund (NEF), a closed-end 7 years mutual fund scheme managed by Nabil Investment Limited with Nabil Bank Limited as the fund sponsor. The fund began with a corpus of Rs 1.25 arba.  Projected performance of NBF II on major indicators  Conclusion All the information stated above might have shed some light on what to expect from NBF II. The issue has opened from Baisakh 05, 2076 (today) and interested investors can apply from any C-ASBA approved banks or Mero Share. Based on the previously managed Mutual Funds Schemes, Nabil Invest has given more than fair return to NBF I but the ongoing NEF's performance is not so good. The internal factor are surely there, but a huge factor is MARKET RISK. NBF I operated from 2069 to 2074, so it got to see the bull of 1800. However, the market is in bearish trend now, because of which not only NEF but almost all of 13 mutual funds are having a hard time increasing their NAV to par of Rs 10. Many experts say, now the bull is near and some say the bear will last some more and everyone and a reasoning about what and how they are estimating. Thus, the projected returns of NBF II is given in earlier section now you have the decision to make whether or not to invest. "
2019-04-17,"Nabil Balance Fund II worth Rs 1.2 billion launched today; Applications open from Baisakh 05, 2076",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-balance-fund-ii-worth-rs-12-billion-launched-today-applications-open-from-baisakh-05-2076,"Nabil Bank Ltd. with its mission to be the ‘1st Choice Provider of Complete Financial Solutions’ registered ""Nabil Mutual Fund"" with the Securities Board of Nepal (SEBON) for introducing various schemes in the Nepalese Capital Market through its Subsidiary Company, Nabil Investment Banking Ltd. (Nabil Invest), which has been rendering the services of Fund Manager and Depository for its first scheme Nabil Balanced Fund I (NBF-I). Nabil Invest has also been able to establish itself as one of the leading investment and merchant banks in the country in its short span of operation.   Following successful closure of its first scheme – Nabil Balanced Fund I, Nabil Mutual Fund is pleased to announce its third scheme - Nabil Balanced Fund-II (NBF-II). It is a closed ended scheme with a maturity period of 10 years and corpus amount of NPR.1.2 Billion. The objective of the Scheme is to invest in combination of equity, equity related instruments and fixed income instruments as allowed by prevailing rules/regulations on mutual fund for stable returns to its unit holders. For liquidity purpose, the units under NBF-II will be listed in Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE) and can be traded like any other securities listed in NEPSE. For maturity, the scheme will follow the prevailing rules/regulations of SEBON. The following distinguished personalities will act as the Fund Supervisors of NBF-II  The issue will open on April 18, 2019 (Baisakh 5, 2076) with an early closure option of April 22, 2019 (Baisakh 9, 2076) in case of over-subscription. Small, medium and large institutional and/or individual  investors can invest in the mutual fund. Minimum investment amount is NPR 1,000 and maximum investment amount NPR 120 Million.  Offer Document approved by SEBON which contains detailed information related to the Scheme are available at the designated Branches of Nabil Bank or at Nabil Invest, Naxal. The applicants can submit their duly filled application via C-ASBA from their bank account or Mero Share.    Nabil Bank & Nabil Invest has already decided to invest 15% of the corpus of the scheme as seed capital. Nabil Bank Ltd. with its mission to be the ‘1st Choice Provider of Complete Financial Solutions’ registered ""Nabil Mutual Fund"" with the Securities Board of Nepal (SEBON) for introducing various schemes in the Nepalese Capital Market through its Subsidiary Company, Nabil Investment Banking Ltd. (Nabil Invest), which has been rendering the services of Fund Manager and Depository for its first scheme Nabil Balanced Fund I (NBF-I). Nabil Invest has also been able to establish itself as one of the leading investment and merchant banks in the country in its short span of operation.   Following successful closure of its first scheme – Nabil Balanced Fund I, Nabil Mutual Fund is pleased to announce its third scheme - Nabil Balanced Fund-II (NBF-II). It is a closed ended scheme with a maturity period of 10 years and corpus amount of NPR.1.2 Billion. The objective of the Scheme is to invest in combination of equity, equity related instruments and fixed income instruments as allowed by prevailing rules/regulations on mutual fund for stable returns to its unit holders. For liquidity purpose, the units under NBF-II will be listed in Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE) and can be traded like any other securities listed in NEPSE. For maturity, the scheme will follow the prevailing rules/regulations of SEBON. The following distinguished personalities will act as the Fund Supervisors of NBF-II  The issue will open on April 18, 2019 (Baisakh 5, 2076) with an early closure option of April 22, 2019 (Baisakh 9, 2076) in case of over-subscription. Small, medium and large institutional and/or individual  investors can invest in the mutual fund. Minimum investment amount is NPR 1,000 and maximum investment amount NPR 120 Million.  Offer Document approved by SEBON which contains detailed information related to the Scheme are available at the designated Branches of Nabil Bank or at Nabil Invest, Naxal. The applicants can submit their duly filled application via C-ASBA from their bank account or Mero Share.    Nabil Bank & Nabil Invest has already decided to invest 15% of the corpus of the scheme as seed capital. Nabil Bank Ltd. with its mission to be the ‘1st Choice Provider of Complete Financial Solutions’ registered ""Nabil Mutual Fund"" with the Securities Board of Nepal (SEBON) for introducing various schemes in the Nepalese Capital Market through its Subsidiary Company, Nabil Investment Banking Ltd. (Nabil Invest), which has been rendering the services of Fund Manager and Depository for its first scheme Nabil Balanced Fund I (NBF-I). Nabil Invest has also been able to establish itself as one of the leading investment and merchant banks in the country in its short span of operation.   Following successful closure of its first scheme – Nabil Balanced Fund I, Nabil Mutual Fund is pleased to announce its third scheme - Nabil Balanced Fund-II (NBF-II). It is a closed ended scheme with a maturity period of 10 years and corpus amount of NPR.1.2 Billion. The objective of the Scheme is to invest in combination of equity, equity related instruments and fixed income instruments as allowed by prevailing rules/regulations on mutual fund for stable returns to its unit holders. For liquidity purpose, the units under NBF-II will be listed in Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE) and can be traded like any other securities listed in NEPSE. For maturity, the scheme will follow the prevailing rules/regulations of SEBON. The following distinguished personalities will act as the Fund Supervisors of NBF-II  The issue will open on April 18, 2019 (Baisakh 5, 2076) with an early closure option of April 22, 2019 (Baisakh 9, 2076) in case of over-subscription. Small, medium and large institutional and/or individual  investors can invest in the mutual fund. Minimum investment amount is NPR 1,000 and maximum investment amount NPR 120 Million.  Offer Document approved by SEBON which contains detailed information related to the Scheme are available at the designated Branches of Nabil Bank or at Nabil Invest, Naxal. The applicants can submit their duly filled application via C-ASBA from their bank account or Mero Share.    Nabil Bank & Nabil Invest has already decided to invest 15% of the corpus of the scheme as seed capital. "
2019-04-10,6 Commercials banks behind on AGM schedule; See which bank distributed highest dividend,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/6-commercials-banks-behind-on-agm-schedule-see-which-bank-distributed-highest-dividend,"The banking industry is the most heavily regulated sector of Nepal, and more so in case of the commercial banks. Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has been continuously emphasizing on prudent regulation of banks and financial institutions to ensure stability, transparency and sustainable growth. Similarly, the Company Act 2063 of Nepal specifies the regulations that companies registered under the Company Registrar Office needs to comply with. One of the most important among them is the requirement regarding the Annual General Meeting (AGM). It specifies:  As you can see, the company must hold AGM within six months of the completion of fiscal year. It has been almost 9 months since the completion of FY 2074/75, but 6 commercial banks are yet to conduct their annual general meeting (AGM). Among those 6 banks, 3 have announced the date for AGM while 3 haven't. The table below illustrates the AGM status of commercial banks and the respective dividends along with the Last Traded Price (LTP) as on April 08, 2019.  There are 27 listed commercial banks in NEPSE and among them 22 have already finished their AGM. However, Civil Bank, Century Commercial Bank, Kumari Bank, Nepal Bank, NCC Bank and Prime commercial bank are yet to convene AGM for 2074/75. Century commercial bank (CCBL) has declared its AGM for April 25, 2019 and has endorsed dividend of 6.5%. Civil Bank (CBL) has endorsed a cash dividend of 4.05%, but the AGM hasn’t been summoned yet. It had also endorsed dividend of 10.79% (10.25% bonus and 0.54% cash) for FY 2073/74, but hasn’t called for AGM yet. So CBL is yet to call two AGMs and approve dividend of 14.84% in total. Similarly, Kumari bank (KBL) has also endorsed bonus shares of 21.25% which needs to be approved from the upcoming AGM, the date for which has been announced for May 9th, 2019.  Prime commercial bank (PCBL) is also yet to convene AGM and has endorsed bonus dividend of 16%. Next on list, Nepal Bank (NBL) hasn’t endorsed any dividend but the AGM has been announced for May 5, 2019. Similarly, NCC bank (NCCB) has neither declared AGM nor endorsed any dividend for FY 2074/75. NCCB is also yet to convene AGM for FY 2073/74 and hasn’t endorsed dividend for that year too. CBL, KBL, NCCB and BOKL are yet to meet the minimum paid-up capital requirement of Rs 8 arba, as per the second quarter report of FY 2075/76. However, as shown in table above, BOKL has distributed 14% bonus and 11% cash dividend from the profit of FY 2074/75, after the adjustment of which the paid-up capital has reached Rs 8.05 arba. Similarly, KBL has also proposed bonus of 8.5% and adding the bonus of 12.75% endorsed for FY 2073/74, the paid-up capital will reach Rs 8.68 arba hitting the minimum requirement mark. The paid-up capital of NCCB as of second quarter of FY 2075/76 stands at Rs 7.01 arba and in addition it hasn’t endorsed dividend or conducted AGM for the past two years. In case of CBL too, the company has proposed 10.25% bonus share from the profit it made in 2073/74 FY. Post adjustment of the proposed bonus share CBL paid up too will reach Rs 800 crores. The banking industry is the most heavily regulated sector of Nepal, and more so in case of the commercial banks. Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has been continuously emphasizing on prudent regulation of banks and financial institutions to ensure stability, transparency and sustainable growth. Similarly, the Company Act 2063 of Nepal specifies the regulations that companies registered under the Company Registrar Office needs to comply with. One of the most important among them is the requirement regarding the Annual General Meeting (AGM). It specifies:  As you can see, the company must hold AGM within six months of the completion of fiscal year. It has been almost 9 months since the completion of FY 2074/75, but 6 commercial banks are yet to conduct their annual general meeting (AGM). Among those 6 banks, 3 have announced the date for AGM while 3 haven't. The table below illustrates the AGM status of commercial banks and the respective dividends along with the Last Traded Price (LTP) as on April 08, 2019.  There are 27 listed commercial banks in NEPSE and among them 22 have already finished their AGM. However, Civil Bank, Century Commercial Bank, Kumari Bank, Nepal Bank, NCC Bank and Prime commercial bank are yet to convene AGM for 2074/75. Century commercial bank (CCBL) has declared its AGM for April 25, 2019 and has endorsed dividend of 6.5%. Civil Bank (CBL) has endorsed a cash dividend of 4.05%, but the AGM hasn’t been summoned yet. It had also endorsed dividend of 10.79% (10.25% bonus and 0.54% cash) for FY 2073/74, but hasn’t called for AGM yet. So CBL is yet to call two AGMs and approve dividend of 14.84% in total. Similarly, Kumari bank (KBL) has also endorsed bonus shares of 21.25% which needs to be approved from the upcoming AGM, the date for which has been announced for May 9th, 2019.  Prime commercial bank (PCBL) is also yet to convene AGM and has endorsed bonus dividend of 16%. Next on list, Nepal Bank (NBL) hasn’t endorsed any dividend but the AGM has been announced for May 5, 2019. Similarly, NCC bank (NCCB) has neither declared AGM nor endorsed any dividend for FY 2074/75. NCCB is also yet to convene AGM for FY 2073/74 and hasn’t endorsed dividend for that year too. CBL, KBL, NCCB and BOKL are yet to meet the minimum paid-up capital requirement of Rs 8 arba, as per the second quarter report of FY 2075/76. However, as shown in table above, BOKL has distributed 14% bonus and 11% cash dividend from the profit of FY 2074/75, after the adjustment of which the paid-up capital has reached Rs 8.05 arba. Similarly, KBL has also proposed bonus of 8.5% and adding the bonus of 12.75% endorsed for FY 2073/74, the paid-up capital will reach Rs 8.68 arba hitting the minimum requirement mark. The paid-up capital of NCCB as of second quarter of FY 2075/76 stands at Rs 7.01 arba and in addition it hasn’t endorsed dividend or conducted AGM for the past two years. In case of CBL too, the company has proposed 10.25% bonus share from the profit it made in 2073/74 FY. Post adjustment of the proposed bonus share CBL paid up too will reach Rs 800 crores. The banking industry is the most heavily regulated sector of Nepal, and more so in case of the commercial banks. Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) has been continuously emphasizing on prudent regulation of banks and financial institutions to ensure stability, transparency and sustainable growth. Similarly, the Company Act 2063 of Nepal specifies the regulations that companies registered under the Company Registrar Office needs to comply with. One of the most important among them is the requirement regarding the Annual General Meeting (AGM). It specifies:  As you can see, the company must hold AGM within six months of the completion of fiscal year. It has been almost 9 months since the completion of FY 2074/75, but 6 commercial banks are yet to conduct their annual general meeting (AGM). Among those 6 banks, 3 have announced the date for AGM while 3 haven't. The table below illustrates the AGM status of commercial banks and the respective dividends along with the Last Traded Price (LTP) as on April 08, 2019.  There are 27 listed commercial banks in NEPSE and among them 22 have already finished their AGM. However, Civil Bank, Century Commercial Bank, Kumari Bank, Nepal Bank, NCC Bank and Prime commercial bank are yet to convene AGM for 2074/75. Century commercial bank (CCBL) has declared its AGM for April 25, 2019 and has endorsed dividend of 6.5%. Civil Bank (CBL) has endorsed a cash dividend of 4.05%, but the AGM hasn’t been summoned yet. It had also endorsed dividend of 10.79% (10.25% bonus and 0.54% cash) for FY 2073/74, but hasn’t called for AGM yet. So CBL is yet to call two AGMs and approve dividend of 14.84% in total. Similarly, Kumari bank (KBL) has also endorsed bonus shares of 21.25% which needs to be approved from the upcoming AGM, the date for which has been announced for May 9th, 2019.  Prime commercial bank (PCBL) is also yet to convene AGM and has endorsed bonus dividend of 16%. Next on list, Nepal Bank (NBL) hasn’t endorsed any dividend but the AGM has been announced for May 5, 2019. Similarly, NCC bank (NCCB) has neither declared AGM nor endorsed any dividend for FY 2074/75. NCCB is also yet to convene AGM for FY 2073/74 and hasn’t endorsed dividend for that year too. CBL, KBL, NCCB and BOKL are yet to meet the minimum paid-up capital requirement of Rs 8 arba, as per the second quarter report of FY 2075/76. However, as shown in table above, BOKL has distributed 14% bonus and 11% cash dividend from the profit of FY 2074/75, after the adjustment of which the paid-up capital has reached Rs 8.05 arba. Similarly, KBL has also proposed bonus of 8.5% and adding the bonus of 12.75% endorsed for FY 2073/74, the paid-up capital will reach Rs 8.68 arba hitting the minimum requirement mark. The paid-up capital of NCCB as of second quarter of FY 2075/76 stands at Rs 7.01 arba and in addition it hasn’t endorsed dividend or conducted AGM for the past two years. In case of CBL too, the company has proposed 10.25% bonus share from the profit it made in 2073/74 FY. Post adjustment of the proposed bonus share CBL paid up too will reach Rs 800 crores. "
2019-04-09,NRB publishes sector wise break down of loans and advances of all commercial banks; which sector has maximum credit concentration?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nrb-publishes-sector-wise-break-down-of-loans-and-advances-of-all-commercial-banks-which-sector-has-maximum-credit-concentration,"Bank and Financial Institutions (BFI’s) can play an important role in national capital creation. They collect the public savings in terms of different kind of deposits and deploy such collected deposits on different sectors as prescribed by Nepal Rastra Bank as loan and advances. The banking sector is a vital organ in our national economy and played a dominant role in achieving national objective of reducing imbalance and increasing industrial production. Nepal Rastra Bank as a regulator of BFI’s of Nepal through different regulations and guidelines directs BFI’s to limit their credit on different sectors of economy. As per the latest information provided by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB), the following is the sector wise break down of amount of loans lent by each commercial bank in different sectors.    Commercial Banks have deployed Rs.23.99 Kharba on different sector till Falgun end FY 75/76. They have extended maximum loans under wholesaler and Retailers sector i.e. Rs.5.43 Kharba by the end of Falgun. The maximum concentration of credit is under Wholesaler and Retailers, Manufacturing sectors and others i.e. 22.64%, 19.90% and 11.13% respectively.  Bank and Financial Institutions (BFI’s) can play an important role in national capital creation. They collect the public savings in terms of different kind of deposits and deploy such collected deposits on different sectors as prescribed by Nepal Rastra Bank as loan and advances. The banking sector is a vital organ in our national economy and played a dominant role in achieving national objective of reducing imbalance and increasing industrial production. Nepal Rastra Bank as a regulator of BFI’s of Nepal through different regulations and guidelines directs BFI’s to limit their credit on different sectors of economy. As per the latest information provided by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB), the following is the sector wise break down of amount of loans lent by each commercial bank in different sectors.    Commercial Banks have deployed Rs.23.99 Kharba on different sector till Falgun end FY 75/76. They have extended maximum loans under wholesaler and Retailers sector i.e. Rs.5.43 Kharba by the end of Falgun. The maximum concentration of credit is under Wholesaler and Retailers, Manufacturing sectors and others i.e. 22.64%, 19.90% and 11.13% respectively.  Bank and Financial Institutions (BFI’s) can play an important role in national capital creation. They collect the public savings in terms of different kind of deposits and deploy such collected deposits on different sectors as prescribed by Nepal Rastra Bank as loan and advances. The banking sector is a vital organ in our national economy and played a dominant role in achieving national objective of reducing imbalance and increasing industrial production. Nepal Rastra Bank as a regulator of BFI’s of Nepal through different regulations and guidelines directs BFI’s to limit their credit on different sectors of economy. As per the latest information provided by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB), the following is the sector wise break down of amount of loans lent by each commercial bank in different sectors.    Commercial Banks have deployed Rs.23.99 Kharba on different sector till Falgun end FY 75/76. They have extended maximum loans under wholesaler and Retailers sector i.e. Rs.5.43 Kharba by the end of Falgun. The maximum concentration of credit is under Wholesaler and Retailers, Manufacturing sectors and others i.e. 22.64%, 19.90% and 11.13% respectively.  "
2019-04-03,What are the current interest rates offered by commercial banks on deposit and loan products? Check if changing bankers will add more value to your operations,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/what-are-the-current-interest-rates-offered-by-commercial-banks-on-deposit-and-loan-products-check-if-changing-bankers-will-add-more-value-to-your-operations,"As the new and final quarter for the  year 2075 approaches dawn, the commercial banks have been in spree to release new interest rates on deposit and loan products. For the interest rate on savings product, all the commercial banks have entered into a gentleman’s agreement to fix a cap on the maximum rate of interest they can provide. As for the main determinant of interest rates on loan products, the base rate which includes all cost of funds, cost of liquidity (CRR and SLR), and cost of operation, for the new quarter have been published by the commercial banks. The banks add a premium on the base rate to derive the final interest on loans. This premium is based on many factors like, credit worthiness of the customer, amount of loan etc. However, a higher base rate doesn’t always mean that the final interest on loan will also be high. On the contrary, a lower rate of premium doesn’t always mean that the final interest on loan will also be low. The base rate of a commercial bank is a fair reflection of the costs incurred by the banks. Therefore, a higher base rate means that the cost incurred by the banks is high and vice versa. Margin Type Loan is a loan that the commercials banks provide against shares as collateral. The banks have a different rate of premium which is added to the base rate to derive the final interest on loan for a customer. Since, the loan is issued against the shares held by the customer, the current market price of the shares is a major influencing factor in these loans. It is also affected by the perspective of the banks regarding the future performance of the shares. For the sake of clarity and ease to the investors, a list has been compiled that includes relevant data regarding the interest rate on savings, latest base rate and premium added to Margin type loans of all 28 commercial banks.  As we can see, since none of the banks have broken the gentleman’s agreement this time, the maximum interest rate on savings provided by commercial banks is uniform 6.50% for most of the banks. Other banks have lower interest rate than 6.50%. Nepal SBI Bank (SBI) and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) provide the lowest rate of interest on savings product in the industry. Similarly, the fixed deposit rates provided by banks are also uniform at 9.25% p.a. for individuals and 8.50% p.a. for institutions for a period of 1 year or above. Both government banks, RBB and Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) are leading the race to have the lowest base rate among commercial banks with base rate of 5.60% and 6.54% respectively. Century Commercial Bank (CCBL) has the highest base rate in the industry at 11.50% while three other commercial banks have base rate more than 11%. The base rate for the industry averages at 9.74% based on the above mentioned base rates. Only 10 out of 28 commercial banks have below average base rates. The premium added on base rate for margin type loan varies between 0% and 8% in the industry. As mentioned earlier, the rate of premium depends on many factors due to which the final interest on loan product varies from customer to customer. As the new and final quarter for the  year 2075 approaches dawn, the commercial banks have been in spree to release new interest rates on deposit and loan products. For the interest rate on savings product, all the commercial banks have entered into a gentleman’s agreement to fix a cap on the maximum rate of interest they can provide. As for the main determinant of interest rates on loan products, the base rate which includes all cost of funds, cost of liquidity (CRR and SLR), and cost of operation, for the new quarter have been published by the commercial banks. The banks add a premium on the base rate to derive the final interest on loans. This premium is based on many factors like, credit worthiness of the customer, amount of loan etc. However, a higher base rate doesn’t always mean that the final interest on loan will also be high. On the contrary, a lower rate of premium doesn’t always mean that the final interest on loan will also be low. The base rate of a commercial bank is a fair reflection of the costs incurred by the banks. Therefore, a higher base rate means that the cost incurred by the banks is high and vice versa. Margin Type Loan is a loan that the commercials banks provide against shares as collateral. The banks have a different rate of premium which is added to the base rate to derive the final interest on loan for a customer. Since, the loan is issued against the shares held by the customer, the current market price of the shares is a major influencing factor in these loans. It is also affected by the perspective of the banks regarding the future performance of the shares. For the sake of clarity and ease to the investors, a list has been compiled that includes relevant data regarding the interest rate on savings, latest base rate and premium added to Margin type loans of all 28 commercial banks.  As we can see, since none of the banks have broken the gentleman’s agreement this time, the maximum interest rate on savings provided by commercial banks is uniform 6.50% for most of the banks. Other banks have lower interest rate than 6.50%. Nepal SBI Bank (SBI) and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) provide the lowest rate of interest on savings product in the industry. Similarly, the fixed deposit rates provided by banks are also uniform at 9.25% p.a. for individuals and 8.50% p.a. for institutions for a period of 1 year or above. Both government banks, RBB and Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) are leading the race to have the lowest base rate among commercial banks with base rate of 5.60% and 6.54% respectively. Century Commercial Bank (CCBL) has the highest base rate in the industry at 11.50% while three other commercial banks have base rate more than 11%. The base rate for the industry averages at 9.74% based on the above mentioned base rates. Only 10 out of 28 commercial banks have below average base rates. The premium added on base rate for margin type loan varies between 0% and 8% in the industry. As mentioned earlier, the rate of premium depends on many factors due to which the final interest on loan product varies from customer to customer. As the new and final quarter for the  year 2075 approaches dawn, the commercial banks have been in spree to release new interest rates on deposit and loan products. For the interest rate on savings product, all the commercial banks have entered into a gentleman’s agreement to fix a cap on the maximum rate of interest they can provide. As for the main determinant of interest rates on loan products, the base rate which includes all cost of funds, cost of liquidity (CRR and SLR), and cost of operation, for the new quarter have been published by the commercial banks. The banks add a premium on the base rate to derive the final interest on loans. This premium is based on many factors like, credit worthiness of the customer, amount of loan etc. However, a higher base rate doesn’t always mean that the final interest on loan will also be high. On the contrary, a lower rate of premium doesn’t always mean that the final interest on loan will also be low. The base rate of a commercial bank is a fair reflection of the costs incurred by the banks. Therefore, a higher base rate means that the cost incurred by the banks is high and vice versa. Margin Type Loan is a loan that the commercials banks provide against shares as collateral. The banks have a different rate of premium which is added to the base rate to derive the final interest on loan for a customer. Since, the loan is issued against the shares held by the customer, the current market price of the shares is a major influencing factor in these loans. It is also affected by the perspective of the banks regarding the future performance of the shares. For the sake of clarity and ease to the investors, a list has been compiled that includes relevant data regarding the interest rate on savings, latest base rate and premium added to Margin type loans of all 28 commercial banks.  As we can see, since none of the banks have broken the gentleman’s agreement this time, the maximum interest rate on savings provided by commercial banks is uniform 6.50% for most of the banks. Other banks have lower interest rate than 6.50%. Nepal SBI Bank (SBI) and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) provide the lowest rate of interest on savings product in the industry. Similarly, the fixed deposit rates provided by banks are also uniform at 9.25% p.a. for individuals and 8.50% p.a. for institutions for a period of 1 year or above. Both government banks, RBB and Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) are leading the race to have the lowest base rate among commercial banks with base rate of 5.60% and 6.54% respectively. Century Commercial Bank (CCBL) has the highest base rate in the industry at 11.50% while three other commercial banks have base rate more than 11%. The base rate for the industry averages at 9.74% based on the above mentioned base rates. Only 10 out of 28 commercial banks have below average base rates. The premium added on base rate for margin type loan varies between 0% and 8% in the industry. As mentioned earlier, the rate of premium depends on many factors due to which the final interest on loan product varies from customer to customer. "
2019-04-02,Nabil Bank to issue Rs 2 arba worth debentures; appoints Laxmi Capital as an issue manager,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-issue-rs-2-arba-worth-debentures-appoints-laxmi-capital-as-an-issue-manager,Nabil Bank Limited has appointed Laxmi Capital Market Limited as an issue manager for issuing 20 lakh unit debentures worth Rs 2 arba at face value of Rs 1000 each. The MoU regarding the same was signed between CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Anil Keshary Shah and CEO of the Laxmi Capital Market Ltd. Mr. Rajiv Sapkota amid a program. The bank which plans to issue 40% of debentures i.e. 8 lakh units worth Rs 80 crore to general investors and remaining 60% i.e 12 lakh units worth Rs 120 crore debentures to the big and institutional investors after receiving permission from SEBON. The maturity period of this debentures is 7 years. The bank plans to provide 10% interest rate to the investment semi-annually for the 7 years until it matures. Nabil Bank Limited has appointed Laxmi Capital Market Limited as an issue manager for issuing 20 lakh unit debentures worth Rs 2 arba at face value of Rs 1000 each. The MoU regarding the same was signed between CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Anil Keshary Shah and CEO of the Laxmi Capital Market Ltd. Mr. Rajiv Sapkota amid a program. The bank which plans to issue 40% of debentures i.e. 8 lakh units worth Rs 80 crore to general investors and remaining 60% i.e 12 lakh units worth Rs 120 crore debentures to the big and institutional investors after receiving permission from SEBON. The maturity period of this debentures is 7 years. The bank plans to provide 10% interest rate to the investment semi-annually for the 7 years until it matures. Nabil Bank Limited has appointed Laxmi Capital Market Limited as an issue manager for issuing 20 lakh unit debentures worth Rs 2 arba at face value of Rs 1000 each. The MoU regarding the same was signed between CEO of Nabil Bank Mr. Anil Keshary Shah and CEO of the Laxmi Capital Market Ltd. Mr. Rajiv Sapkota amid a program. The bank which plans to issue 40% of debentures i.e. 8 lakh units worth Rs 80 crore to general investors and remaining 60% i.e 12 lakh units worth Rs 120 crore debentures to the big and institutional investors after receiving permission from SEBON. The maturity period of this debentures is 7 years. The bank plans to provide 10% interest rate to the investment semi-annually for the 7 years until it matures. 
2019-03-29,Nabil Bank launches Nabil Nari; to encourage savings and enhancing women entrepreneurship in Nepal,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-nabil-nari-to-encourage-savings-and-enhancing-women-entrepreneurship-in-nepal,"Nabil Bank has launched “Nabil Nari” a complete packaged product designed exclusively for Nepali women. With the view of celebrating womanhood, Nabil Bank has taken the initiative to provide complete banking services for women by introducing three new products under Nabil Nari. The Bank has also appointed leading Nepali actress, Ms. Priyanka Karki as the face of Nabil Nari.  Under Nabil Nari, the Bank has introduced three new saving and loan products - “Nabil Premium Nari Bachat”, “Nabil Nari Karja” and “Women Run Microenterprises Loan” to cater to all the financial needs of Nepali women, in terms of encouraging savings as well as enhancing women entrepreneurship in Nepal.  Nabil Premium Nari Bachat offers a competitive interest rate of 4.75% p.a. with attractive features and special benefits and features like Nabil SmartBank, Credit Cards (both local and international), Demand Drafts/Swift Transfers, locker facility etc. Furthermore, Nabil Nari Karja is a SME loan product designed specifically for women, which aims to provide a flexible loan with a very competitive interest rate of 9.99% p.a. to assist women in their entrepreneurial endeavors. Eligibility for Nabil Nari Karja: Proprietorship firm       : Women owned Partnership firm : 50% partnership of women Company                      : 51% shareholding of women Features of NABIL NARI KARJA In view of developing agriculture and livestock sector and also assist in self employment and micro enterprise development for Women, Nabil Bank has also launched Women Run Microenterprises interest subsidized loan under Direct Deprived Sector Lending on an EMI basis with a very low rate of interest of 3.94% p.a. This loan facility aims to develop women’s entrepreneurial skills for sustainability, increase production and job creation through agro and livestock businesses and other entrepreneurial activities.  Features of WOMEN RUN MICROENTERPRISES LOAN  “I believe that our new Nari products will encourage all Nepali women to take steps towards building a secure future and also empower women entrepreneurs to grow and contribute in the development themselves, their families and the society at large. With an access to high quality credit sources, women can build strong businesses, escape poverty and become an even bigger contributor to the economic development of the nation” said the CEO of Nabil Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah.  Nabil bank is providing its services through a wide domestic network of 75 branches, 125 ATMs, more than 1,500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe. The Bank believes in moving “Together Ahead” with all its stakeholders. Nabil Bank has launched “Nabil Nari” a complete packaged product designed exclusively for Nepali women. With the view of celebrating womanhood, Nabil Bank has taken the initiative to provide complete banking services for women by introducing three new products under Nabil Nari. The Bank has also appointed leading Nepali actress, Ms. Priyanka Karki as the face of Nabil Nari.  Under Nabil Nari, the Bank has introduced three new saving and loan products - “Nabil Premium Nari Bachat”, “Nabil Nari Karja” and “Women Run Microenterprises Loan” to cater to all the financial needs of Nepali women, in terms of encouraging savings as well as enhancing women entrepreneurship in Nepal.  Nabil Premium Nari Bachat offers a competitive interest rate of 4.75% p.a. with attractive features and special benefits and features like Nabil SmartBank, Credit Cards (both local and international), Demand Drafts/Swift Transfers, locker facility etc. Furthermore, Nabil Nari Karja is a SME loan product designed specifically for women, which aims to provide a flexible loan with a very competitive interest rate of 9.99% p.a. to assist women in their entrepreneurial endeavors. Eligibility for Nabil Nari Karja: Proprietorship firm       : Women owned Partnership firm : 50% partnership of women Company                      : 51% shareholding of women Features of NABIL NARI KARJA In view of developing agriculture and livestock sector and also assist in self employment and micro enterprise development for Women, Nabil Bank has also launched Women Run Microenterprises interest subsidized loan under Direct Deprived Sector Lending on an EMI basis with a very low rate of interest of 3.94% p.a. This loan facility aims to develop women’s entrepreneurial skills for sustainability, increase production and job creation through agro and livestock businesses and other entrepreneurial activities.  Features of WOMEN RUN MICROENTERPRISES LOAN  “I believe that our new Nari products will encourage all Nepali women to take steps towards building a secure future and also empower women entrepreneurs to grow and contribute in the development themselves, their families and the society at large. With an access to high quality credit sources, women can build strong businesses, escape poverty and become an even bigger contributor to the economic development of the nation” said the CEO of Nabil Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah.  Nabil bank is providing its services through a wide domestic network of 75 branches, 125 ATMs, more than 1,500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe. The Bank believes in moving “Together Ahead” with all its stakeholders. Nabil Bank has launched “Nabil Nari” a complete packaged product designed exclusively for Nepali women. With the view of celebrating womanhood, Nabil Bank has taken the initiative to provide complete banking services for women by introducing three new products under Nabil Nari. The Bank has also appointed leading Nepali actress, Ms. Priyanka Karki as the face of Nabil Nari.  Under Nabil Nari, the Bank has introduced three new saving and loan products - “Nabil Premium Nari Bachat”, “Nabil Nari Karja” and “Women Run Microenterprises Loan” to cater to all the financial needs of Nepali women, in terms of encouraging savings as well as enhancing women entrepreneurship in Nepal.  Nabil Premium Nari Bachat offers a competitive interest rate of 4.75% p.a. with attractive features and special benefits and features like Nabil SmartBank, Credit Cards (both local and international), Demand Drafts/Swift Transfers, locker facility etc. Furthermore, Nabil Nari Karja is a SME loan product designed specifically for women, which aims to provide a flexible loan with a very competitive interest rate of 9.99% p.a. to assist women in their entrepreneurial endeavors. Eligibility for Nabil Nari Karja: Proprietorship firm       : Women owned Partnership firm : 50% partnership of women Company                      : 51% shareholding of women Features of NABIL NARI KARJA In view of developing agriculture and livestock sector and also assist in self employment and micro enterprise development for Women, Nabil Bank has also launched Women Run Microenterprises interest subsidized loan under Direct Deprived Sector Lending on an EMI basis with a very low rate of interest of 3.94% p.a. This loan facility aims to develop women’s entrepreneurial skills for sustainability, increase production and job creation through agro and livestock businesses and other entrepreneurial activities.  Features of WOMEN RUN MICROENTERPRISES LOAN  “I believe that our new Nari products will encourage all Nepali women to take steps towards building a secure future and also empower women entrepreneurs to grow and contribute in the development themselves, their families and the society at large. With an access to high quality credit sources, women can build strong businesses, escape poverty and become an even bigger contributor to the economic development of the nation” said the CEO of Nabil Bank, Mr. Anil Keshary Shah.  Nabil bank is providing its services through a wide domestic network of 75 branches, 125 ATMs, more than 1,500 Nabil Remit agents throughout the nation and many correspondents across the globe. The Bank believes in moving “Together Ahead” with all its stakeholders. "
2019-03-19,The maze of 10% NABIL Promoter Shares finally solved! Scrip holders of NABIL Promoter Shares who will get their shares converted are likely to be in profit!,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/the-maze-of-10-nabil-promoter-shares-finally-solved-scrip-holders-of-nabil-promoter-shares-who-will-get-their-shares-converted-are-likely-to-be-in-profit,
2019-03-14,37.05 lakh unit shares of Trishuli Jal Vidhyut added in SEBON’s IPO pipeline; company jointly promoted by NEA and NTC,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/3705-lakh-unit-shares-of-trishuli-jal-vidhyut-added-in-sebons-ipo-pipeline-company-jointly-promoted-by-nea-and-ntc,"Securities Exchange Board of Nepal (SEBON) has added 37,05,000 unit initial public offering (IPO) of Trishuli Jal Vidhyut Company Limited in the IPO pipeline. The company will be issuing 37.05 lakh unit shares of Rs 100 face value each for the general public. Global IME Capital Limited has been appointed as the issue manager for the IPO issuance. Trishuli Jal Vidhyut Company Limited (TJVCL) is a public limited company established in 11th May 2011 to harness the hydropower potential of the country at a reasonable rate with the full utilization of the available national water resources. The company is jointly formed by Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) and Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited (NDCL). The company is planning to develop Upper Trishuli 3B Hydropower Project (UT3BHEP) with installed capacity of 37 MW located in Nuwakot and Rashuwa District. UT3BHEP is a run-off-river (ROR) type cascade project of Upper Trishuli 3A HEP (60 MW) which lies in the Trishuli River. The cost for the construction of the 37MW project is estimated to be Rs 8.22 arba. Out of which the consortium (NABIL, HIDCL and Nepal Bank) will provide 70% i.e. Rs 5.76 arba for the project. Similarly, the project will have the ownership according to the ownership structure of Trishuli Hydropower Company which can be seen in the graph presented below:   Securities Exchange Board of Nepal (SEBON) has added 37,05,000 unit initial public offering (IPO) of Trishuli Jal Vidhyut Company Limited in the IPO pipeline. The company will be issuing 37.05 lakh unit shares of Rs 100 face value each for the general public. Global IME Capital Limited has been appointed as the issue manager for the IPO issuance. Trishuli Jal Vidhyut Company Limited (TJVCL) is a public limited company established in 11th May 2011 to harness the hydropower potential of the country at a reasonable rate with the full utilization of the available national water resources. The company is jointly formed by Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) and Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited (NDCL). The company is planning to develop Upper Trishuli 3B Hydropower Project (UT3BHEP) with installed capacity of 37 MW located in Nuwakot and Rashuwa District. UT3BHEP is a run-off-river (ROR) type cascade project of Upper Trishuli 3A HEP (60 MW) which lies in the Trishuli River. The cost for the construction of the 37MW project is estimated to be Rs 8.22 arba. Out of which the consortium (NABIL, HIDCL and Nepal Bank) will provide 70% i.e. Rs 5.76 arba for the project. Similarly, the project will have the ownership according to the ownership structure of Trishuli Hydropower Company which can be seen in the graph presented below:   Securities Exchange Board of Nepal (SEBON) has added 37,05,000 unit initial public offering (IPO) of Trishuli Jal Vidhyut Company Limited in the IPO pipeline. The company will be issuing 37.05 lakh unit shares of Rs 100 face value each for the general public. Global IME Capital Limited has been appointed as the issue manager for the IPO issuance. Trishuli Jal Vidhyut Company Limited (TJVCL) is a public limited company established in 11th May 2011 to harness the hydropower potential of the country at a reasonable rate with the full utilization of the available national water resources. The company is jointly formed by Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) and Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited (NDCL). The company is planning to develop Upper Trishuli 3B Hydropower Project (UT3BHEP) with installed capacity of 37 MW located in Nuwakot and Rashuwa District. UT3BHEP is a run-off-river (ROR) type cascade project of Upper Trishuli 3A HEP (60 MW) which lies in the Trishuli River. The cost for the construction of the 37MW project is estimated to be Rs 8.22 arba. Out of which the consortium (NABIL, HIDCL and Nepal Bank) will provide 70% i.e. Rs 5.76 arba for the project. Similarly, the project will have the ownership according to the ownership structure of Trishuli Hydropower Company which can be seen in the graph presented below:   "
2019-03-12,Nabil Bank now 34 years better; 34th AGM endorses handsome dividend of total 34% for shareholders,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-now-34-years-better-34th-agm-endorses-handsome-dividend-of-total-34-for-shareholders,
2019-03-11,34th AGM of Nabil Bank to be held today; 12% bonus share to be distributed,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/34th-agm-of-nabil-bank-to-be-held-today-12-bonus-share-to-be-distributed,
2019-03-08,Nabil Bank signs agreement with UKaid Sakchyam Access to Finance and launche Nabil Sajilo Karja; aims to Enhance Banking Services for SME Segment in Nepal with competitive credit facility,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-signs-agreement-with-ukaid-sakchyam-access-to-finance-and-launche-nabil-sajilo-karja-aims-to-enhance-banking-services-for-sme-segment-in-nepal-with-competitive-credit-facility,
2019-03-03,Why the status of commercial banks is still risky? A brief picture of Funding and Non Funding Income,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/why-the-status-of-commercial-banks-is-still-risky-a-brief-picture-of-funding-and-non-funding-income,"The income aspect of banks revolves around receiving deposits and lending loans. In between this process, banks charge higher percentage of interest on the loan they disburse and provide lower interest rates on the deposit they receive. This gap that bank produces is its core income known as net interest income. The net interest income can also be referred as Funding income.  The era of banking has been evolving overtime. Today’s banks are not supposed to be relied upon net interest income as the only source of income. Therefore, banks provide variety of services such as credit and debit cards, internet banking, mobile banking, locker services, foreign currency exchange services etc. Banks charge fees for processing loans, providing card services, and hosting other services. Income earned through other fees except interest income is called as Non Funding Income. As of second quarter of FY 2075/76, the net interest income i.e. funding income accounts for about 77.44% of the overall banking income. As mentioned earlier, net interest income, the core income of the banks, play a vital function in banks’ performance. However, net interest income is associated with several high level risks in the form of bad loans. In this scenario, investors and analysts should not overlook the component of non-funding income of banks. Non-funding income has a relatively low level of risk. The higher the non-funding interest income, the more diversified portfolio of income producing activities.   As of second quarter this year, the total income of the commercial banking industry is Rs 80.13 arba. The funding income of industry is Rs 62.05 arba occupying 77.44% and non-funding income remains at only Rs 18.08 arba which is 22.56% of the whole industry income. This means that more than three-fourths part of income generated by commercial banks is risky and is highly dependent on deposits and loans. This shows the extent to which liquidity crunch will impact the banking industry.  There are only 15 out of 28 commercial banks that have non-funding income proportion above 22.56%. The bank with highest proportion of non-funding income is Standard Chartered Bank (SCB). It has maintained a ratio of 65:34% between funding and non-funding income. Besides, Nepal Bangladesh Bank (NBB) has maintained a 70:29% ratio between funding and non-funding income. Ironically, state banks such as Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) and Agriculture Development bank (ADBL) which are supposed to be the epitomes for diversifying their services have the lowest contribution in the non-funding income sources. The data table shows the absence of innovation in the banking industry of the country. The income aspect of banks revolves around receiving deposits and lending loans. In between this process, banks charge higher percentage of interest on the loan they disburse and provide lower interest rates on the deposit they receive. This gap that bank produces is its core income known as net interest income. The net interest income can also be referred as Funding income.  The era of banking has been evolving overtime. Today’s banks are not supposed to be relied upon net interest income as the only source of income. Therefore, banks provide variety of services such as credit and debit cards, internet banking, mobile banking, locker services, foreign currency exchange services etc. Banks charge fees for processing loans, providing card services, and hosting other services. Income earned through other fees except interest income is called as Non Funding Income. As of second quarter of FY 2075/76, the net interest income i.e. funding income accounts for about 77.44% of the overall banking income. As mentioned earlier, net interest income, the core income of the banks, play a vital function in banks’ performance. However, net interest income is associated with several high level risks in the form of bad loans. In this scenario, investors and analysts should not overlook the component of non-funding income of banks. Non-funding income has a relatively low level of risk. The higher the non-funding interest income, the more diversified portfolio of income producing activities.   As of second quarter this year, the total income of the commercial banking industry is Rs 80.13 arba. The funding income of industry is Rs 62.05 arba occupying 77.44% and non-funding income remains at only Rs 18.08 arba which is 22.56% of the whole industry income. This means that more than three-fourths part of income generated by commercial banks is risky and is highly dependent on deposits and loans. This shows the extent to which liquidity crunch will impact the banking industry.  There are only 15 out of 28 commercial banks that have non-funding income proportion above 22.56%. The bank with highest proportion of non-funding income is Standard Chartered Bank (SCB). It has maintained a ratio of 65:34% between funding and non-funding income. Besides, Nepal Bangladesh Bank (NBB) has maintained a 70:29% ratio between funding and non-funding income. Ironically, state banks such as Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) and Agriculture Development bank (ADBL) which are supposed to be the epitomes for diversifying their services have the lowest contribution in the non-funding income sources. The data table shows the absence of innovation in the banking industry of the country. The income aspect of banks revolves around receiving deposits and lending loans. In between this process, banks charge higher percentage of interest on the loan they disburse and provide lower interest rates on the deposit they receive. This gap that bank produces is its core income known as net interest income. The net interest income can also be referred as Funding income.  The era of banking has been evolving overtime. Today’s banks are not supposed to be relied upon net interest income as the only source of income. Therefore, banks provide variety of services such as credit and debit cards, internet banking, mobile banking, locker services, foreign currency exchange services etc. Banks charge fees for processing loans, providing card services, and hosting other services. Income earned through other fees except interest income is called as Non Funding Income. As of second quarter of FY 2075/76, the net interest income i.e. funding income accounts for about 77.44% of the overall banking income. As mentioned earlier, net interest income, the core income of the banks, play a vital function in banks’ performance. However, net interest income is associated with several high level risks in the form of bad loans. In this scenario, investors and analysts should not overlook the component of non-funding income of banks. Non-funding income has a relatively low level of risk. The higher the non-funding interest income, the more diversified portfolio of income producing activities.   As of second quarter this year, the total income of the commercial banking industry is Rs 80.13 arba. The funding income of industry is Rs 62.05 arba occupying 77.44% and non-funding income remains at only Rs 18.08 arba which is 22.56% of the whole industry income. This means that more than three-fourths part of income generated by commercial banks is risky and is highly dependent on deposits and loans. This shows the extent to which liquidity crunch will impact the banking industry.  There are only 15 out of 28 commercial banks that have non-funding income proportion above 22.56%. The bank with highest proportion of non-funding income is Standard Chartered Bank (SCB). It has maintained a ratio of 65:34% between funding and non-funding income. Besides, Nepal Bangladesh Bank (NBB) has maintained a 70:29% ratio between funding and non-funding income. Ironically, state banks such as Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) and Agriculture Development bank (ADBL) which are supposed to be the epitomes for diversifying their services have the lowest contribution in the non-funding income sources. The data table shows the absence of innovation in the banking industry of the country. "
2019-03-03,Nabil Bank Launches NFC enabled contactless cards and POS terminals; Simply tap and make payment incontactless enabled POS terminals without inserting your cards now ,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-nfc-enabled-contactless-cards-and-pos-terminals-simply-tap-and-make-payment-incontactless-enabled-pos-terminals-without-inserting-your-cards-now,
2019-02-26,Approx. 80 lakh units promoter shares of Nabil bank to be converted into ordinary shares; Conversion decision in the hands of shareholders,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/approx-80-lakh-units-promoter-shares-of-nabil-bank-to-be-converted-into-ordinary-shares-conversion-decision-in-the-hands-of-shareholders,
2019-02-25,Last day to grab 12% bonus and 22% cash dividend of Nabil Bank Limited; book closure on Falgun 14,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/last-day-to-grab-12-bonus-and-22-cash-dividend-of-nabil-bank-limited-book-closure-on-falgun-14,"Today is the last day to grab 12% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL). Nabil Bank Limited will be convening its 34th AGM on Falgun 27, 2075. For the purpose of the meeting the shareholders register book of the bank will remain closed on falgun 14, 2075 i.e the shareholders holding the shares of the bank till Falgun 13, 2075 can claim for dividend and participate on AGM. The meeting will be convened in the premises of Nepal Academy, Kamaladi, Kathmandu at 11:30 AM. The main agendas of the meeting include  Why the price gap between Nabil ordinary and promoter shares? Today is the last day to grab 12% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL). Nabil Bank Limited will be convening its 34th AGM on Falgun 27, 2075. For the purpose of the meeting the shareholders register book of the bank will remain closed on falgun 14, 2075 i.e the shareholders holding the shares of the bank till Falgun 13, 2075 can claim for dividend and participate on AGM. The meeting will be convened in the premises of Nepal Academy, Kamaladi, Kathmandu at 11:30 AM. The main agendas of the meeting include  Why the price gap between Nabil ordinary and promoter shares? Today is the last day to grab 12% bonus shares and 22% cash dividend of Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL). Nabil Bank Limited will be convening its 34th AGM on Falgun 27, 2075. For the purpose of the meeting the shareholders register book of the bank will remain closed on falgun 14, 2075 i.e the shareholders holding the shares of the bank till Falgun 13, 2075 can claim for dividend and participate on AGM. The meeting will be convened in the premises of Nepal Academy, Kamaladi, Kathmandu at 11:30 AM. The main agendas of the meeting include  Why the price gap between Nabil ordinary and promoter shares? "
2019-02-18,"Commercial banks, their personnel expenses and it's comparative impact in Total operating income; Banks with Government stake seem inefficient in utilizing personnel expenses",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-their-personnel-expenses-and-its-comparative-impact-in-total-operating-income-banks-with-government-stake-seem-inefficient-in-utilizing-personnel-expenses,
2019-02-18,Nabil Bank to convert its 10% promoter shares sold by NIDC Development Bank to public shares; AGM on Falgun 27,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-convert-its-10-promoter-shares-sold-by-nidc-development-bank-to-public-shares-agm-on-falgun-27,"Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) will be convening its 34th AGM on Falgun 27, 2075. The meeting will be convened in the premises of Nepal Academy, Kamaladi, Kathmandu at 11:30 AM.  The main agendas of the meeting include For the purpose of the meeting the shareholders register book of the bank will remain closed on falgun 14, 2075 i.e the shareholders holding the shares of the bank till Falgun 13, 2075 can claim for dividend and participate on AGM. Currently the last trading price of NABILP (Nabil Promoter) and Nabil (Nabil Public) is trading at Rs 724 and Rs 807 respectively. Why the price gap between Nabil ordinary and promoter shares? Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) will be convening its 34th AGM on Falgun 27, 2075. The meeting will be convened in the premises of Nepal Academy, Kamaladi, Kathmandu at 11:30 AM.  The main agendas of the meeting include For the purpose of the meeting the shareholders register book of the bank will remain closed on falgun 14, 2075 i.e the shareholders holding the shares of the bank till Falgun 13, 2075 can claim for dividend and participate on AGM. Currently the last trading price of NABILP (Nabil Promoter) and Nabil (Nabil Public) is trading at Rs 724 and Rs 807 respectively. Why the price gap between Nabil ordinary and promoter shares? Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) will be convening its 34th AGM on Falgun 27, 2075. The meeting will be convened in the premises of Nepal Academy, Kamaladi, Kathmandu at 11:30 AM.  The main agendas of the meeting include For the purpose of the meeting the shareholders register book of the bank will remain closed on falgun 14, 2075 i.e the shareholders holding the shares of the bank till Falgun 13, 2075 can claim for dividend and participate on AGM. Currently the last trading price of NABILP (Nabil Promoter) and Nabil (Nabil Public) is trading at Rs 724 and Rs 807 respectively. Why the price gap between Nabil ordinary and promoter shares? "
2019-02-15,Correlation between commercial banks and NEPSE index; what implication does it have in your investment decision?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/correlation-between-commercial-banks-and-nepse-index-what-implication-does-it-have-in-your-investment-decision,
2019-02-12,Will your investment decision change after studying the comparative analysis of commercial banks' performance? Two State banks lead in three major indicators each,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/will-your-investment-decision-change-after-studying-the-comparative-analysis-of-commercial-banks-performance-two-state-banks-lead-in-three-major-indicators-each,"The end of every quarter in a fiscal year is a perfect analogue to this particular song by Kenny Rogers. The song “The Gambler” rightly puts in this part of the lyrics what an investor goes through every quarter end. It rightly says: The second quarter of fiscal year 2075/76 has come to an end. “A” graded commercial banks of the country have published their reports. As an investor, let us compare each of these commercial banks. Let us now decide if we should hold these stocks, throw them away or completely walk away from stock market.   By the end of second quarter, commercial banks have already distributed their dividend to stockholders. The prices of these stocks usually decrease in value post the supply of bonus shares. After evaluating the performance of stocks in second quarter, investors can undertake their investment decision. The following are the key elements necessary in analyzing the second quarter performance of commercial banks: As per the net profit of second quarter of 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 2.41 arba. Similarly, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL has the second highest net profit of Rs 2.17 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) has the net profit of Rs 1.97 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 35.97 crore.  The industry average net profit of the 28 commercial banks is Rs 1.10 arba. 11 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks has net profit below the industry average. In terms of growth, NIC Asia Bank Limited had the highest growth of net profit compared with last years’ net profit. The bank’s net profit grew by 164% this quarter as compared to the same quarter of last year.  In the NFRS format of financial statements, investors will find several types of income and profits. For instance, profit for the period, comprehensive income, distributable profit, profit after regulatory adjustments, etc. However, the actual profit can be determined through specimen “profit/loss for the period” of financial statement. Paid up capital in NFRS refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The central bank of the country has directed these “A” categorized banks to meet the paid up capital requirement of at least 8 arba. Nepal Credit and Commercial Bank (NCCB), Bank of Kathmandu Limited (BOKL) and Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) are still to meet the paid up capital requirement.  The bank with highest paid up capital are Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 12.59 arba capital, Mega Bank Limited (MEGA) with Rs 10.39 arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 10.31 arba paid up capital.  With an industry average of Rs 6.28 arba, eight banks stand above the average range of Rs 6.28 arba in their reserve fund. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.65 arba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained second position with Rs 14.52 arba reserve and surplus fund. Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 14.22 arba. The bank with least reserve and surplus is Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) with a reserve of Rs 1.64 arba.  The bank with highest growth in Reserve and Surplus as compared to last year is Nepal Bank Limited with a growth of 289%.  In an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 94.84 arba as deposit. Only 12 banks are above the average deposit collection. In the banking sector, the deposit collection will play a major role in the upcoming days. All the banks have the same range of paid up capital which is equal or above Rs 8 arba. So, the commercial banks are going through a severe competition with each other in order to attract the deposit clients. As of the second quarter of FY 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.81 kharba. NIC Asia is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 1.75 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.49 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 43.08 arba only.  The total deposit collected by the industry is Rs 26.55 kharba. Mega Bank Limited had the highest growth in deposits compared with deposits of last year. The bank’s deposit portfolio grew by 55%.  In today’s context, the concern of commercial banks simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. Today’s concern is upon the loan portfolio that the banks have been able to create. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.49 kharba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.34 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.30 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 43.55 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 84.46 arba. 13 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 84.46 arba. The total loan disbursed is Rs 23.64 kharba. The bank with highest growth in loan portfolio compared with the second quarter of last year is Mega Bank Limited. The growth rate of the bank is 62% in loan portfolio.  This free profit/loss is related with the statement of reconciliation published in financial reports.  Commercial banks are required to reconcile profit between NFRS financials and NRB Directives, 2074 based financials. The bank with highest free profit after regulatory adjustment is Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is Rs 2.17 arba. In the second position, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest free profit after regulatory adjustment that accounts to Rs 2.04 arba. It is further followed by Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) with an amount of Rs 1.72 arba.  The industry average free profit after regulatory adjustment accounts to Rs 96.68 crore. Major indicators: With the increment in the paid-up capital requirement, the EPS of these banks were expected to fall. However, some commercial banks have managed to maintain their EPS better than others. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 54.28 per share. Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second highest EPS of Rs 53.33 per share. Everest bank limited (EBL) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 35.36 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 9.01 per share.  The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 25.61. Ten commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. NIC Asia Bank limited is the bank with highest growth of 141% in EPS of this year compared with last quarter in the same period.  (In the old format, investors calculated EPS through “net profit divided by no. of outstanding shares”. However, the EPS calculation is not possible through the same approach in context of NFRS format. Under NFRS, Weighted number of outstanding shares is taken to calculate EPS. Hence, investors should rely on the published EPS.) The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 300.28 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the second position with Rs 280.57. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q2 of FY 2075/76 i.e. Rs 238.20. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 120.34 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 170.35 per share. 10 companies have net worth more than the industry average. Nepal Bank Limited is the bank with highest growth in terms of net worth per share. The growth is 84%.  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the least PE ratio of 8.41 times. It is followed by Prabhu Bank Limited (PRVU) with PE ratio of 9.32 times and finally Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) has highest PE ratio of 19.27 times.  17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 12.25 times. This figure suggests that commercial banks are cheaper than expected. In a nutshell: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 28 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 2075/76:   Dear investors, please feel free to share your investment decision after the performance evaluation of key indicators of these commercial banks. The end of every quarter in a fiscal year is a perfect analogue to this particular song by Kenny Rogers. The song “The Gambler” rightly puts in this part of the lyrics what an investor goes through every quarter end. It rightly says: The second quarter of fiscal year 2075/76 has come to an end. “A” graded commercial banks of the country have published their reports. As an investor, let us compare each of these commercial banks. Let us now decide if we should hold these stocks, throw them away or completely walk away from stock market.   By the end of second quarter, commercial banks have already distributed their dividend to stockholders. The prices of these stocks usually decrease in value post the supply of bonus shares. After evaluating the performance of stocks in second quarter, investors can undertake their investment decision. The following are the key elements necessary in analyzing the second quarter performance of commercial banks: As per the net profit of second quarter of 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 2.41 arba. Similarly, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL has the second highest net profit of Rs 2.17 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) has the net profit of Rs 1.97 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 35.97 crore.  The industry average net profit of the 28 commercial banks is Rs 1.10 arba. 11 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks has net profit below the industry average. In terms of growth, NIC Asia Bank Limited had the highest growth of net profit compared with last years’ net profit. The bank’s net profit grew by 164% this quarter as compared to the same quarter of last year.  In the NFRS format of financial statements, investors will find several types of income and profits. For instance, profit for the period, comprehensive income, distributable profit, profit after regulatory adjustments, etc. However, the actual profit can be determined through specimen “profit/loss for the period” of financial statement. Paid up capital in NFRS refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The central bank of the country has directed these “A” categorized banks to meet the paid up capital requirement of at least 8 arba. Nepal Credit and Commercial Bank (NCCB), Bank of Kathmandu Limited (BOKL) and Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) are still to meet the paid up capital requirement.  The bank with highest paid up capital are Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 12.59 arba capital, Mega Bank Limited (MEGA) with Rs 10.39 arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 10.31 arba paid up capital.  With an industry average of Rs 6.28 arba, eight banks stand above the average range of Rs 6.28 arba in their reserve fund. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.65 arba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained second position with Rs 14.52 arba reserve and surplus fund. Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 14.22 arba. The bank with least reserve and surplus is Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) with a reserve of Rs 1.64 arba.  The bank with highest growth in Reserve and Surplus as compared to last year is Nepal Bank Limited with a growth of 289%.  In an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 94.84 arba as deposit. Only 12 banks are above the average deposit collection. In the banking sector, the deposit collection will play a major role in the upcoming days. All the banks have the same range of paid up capital which is equal or above Rs 8 arba. So, the commercial banks are going through a severe competition with each other in order to attract the deposit clients. As of the second quarter of FY 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.81 kharba. NIC Asia is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 1.75 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.49 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 43.08 arba only.  The total deposit collected by the industry is Rs 26.55 kharba. Mega Bank Limited had the highest growth in deposits compared with deposits of last year. The bank’s deposit portfolio grew by 55%.  In today’s context, the concern of commercial banks simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. Today’s concern is upon the loan portfolio that the banks have been able to create. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.49 kharba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.34 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.30 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 43.55 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 84.46 arba. 13 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 84.46 arba. The total loan disbursed is Rs 23.64 kharba. The bank with highest growth in loan portfolio compared with the second quarter of last year is Mega Bank Limited. The growth rate of the bank is 62% in loan portfolio.  This free profit/loss is related with the statement of reconciliation published in financial reports.  Commercial banks are required to reconcile profit between NFRS financials and NRB Directives, 2074 based financials. The bank with highest free profit after regulatory adjustment is Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is Rs 2.17 arba. In the second position, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest free profit after regulatory adjustment that accounts to Rs 2.04 arba. It is further followed by Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) with an amount of Rs 1.72 arba.  The industry average free profit after regulatory adjustment accounts to Rs 96.68 crore. Major indicators: With the increment in the paid-up capital requirement, the EPS of these banks were expected to fall. However, some commercial banks have managed to maintain their EPS better than others. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 54.28 per share. Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second highest EPS of Rs 53.33 per share. Everest bank limited (EBL) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 35.36 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 9.01 per share.  The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 25.61. Ten commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. NIC Asia Bank limited is the bank with highest growth of 141% in EPS of this year compared with last quarter in the same period.  (In the old format, investors calculated EPS through “net profit divided by no. of outstanding shares”. However, the EPS calculation is not possible through the same approach in context of NFRS format. Under NFRS, Weighted number of outstanding shares is taken to calculate EPS. Hence, investors should rely on the published EPS.) The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 300.28 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the second position with Rs 280.57. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q2 of FY 2075/76 i.e. Rs 238.20. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 120.34 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 170.35 per share. 10 companies have net worth more than the industry average. Nepal Bank Limited is the bank with highest growth in terms of net worth per share. The growth is 84%.  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the least PE ratio of 8.41 times. It is followed by Prabhu Bank Limited (PRVU) with PE ratio of 9.32 times and finally Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) has highest PE ratio of 19.27 times.  17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 12.25 times. This figure suggests that commercial banks are cheaper than expected. In a nutshell: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 28 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 2075/76:   Dear investors, please feel free to share your investment decision after the performance evaluation of key indicators of these commercial banks. The end of every quarter in a fiscal year is a perfect analogue to this particular song by Kenny Rogers. The song “The Gambler” rightly puts in this part of the lyrics what an investor goes through every quarter end. It rightly says: The second quarter of fiscal year 2075/76 has come to an end. “A” graded commercial banks of the country have published their reports. As an investor, let us compare each of these commercial banks. Let us now decide if we should hold these stocks, throw them away or completely walk away from stock market.   By the end of second quarter, commercial banks have already distributed their dividend to stockholders. The prices of these stocks usually decrease in value post the supply of bonus shares. After evaluating the performance of stocks in second quarter, investors can undertake their investment decision. The following are the key elements necessary in analyzing the second quarter performance of commercial banks: As per the net profit of second quarter of 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 2.41 arba. Similarly, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL has the second highest net profit of Rs 2.17 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) has the net profit of Rs 1.97 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 35.97 crore.  The industry average net profit of the 28 commercial banks is Rs 1.10 arba. 11 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks has net profit below the industry average. In terms of growth, NIC Asia Bank Limited had the highest growth of net profit compared with last years’ net profit. The bank’s net profit grew by 164% this quarter as compared to the same quarter of last year.  In the NFRS format of financial statements, investors will find several types of income and profits. For instance, profit for the period, comprehensive income, distributable profit, profit after regulatory adjustments, etc. However, the actual profit can be determined through specimen “profit/loss for the period” of financial statement. Paid up capital in NFRS refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The central bank of the country has directed these “A” categorized banks to meet the paid up capital requirement of at least 8 arba. Nepal Credit and Commercial Bank (NCCB), Bank of Kathmandu Limited (BOKL) and Kumari Bank Limited (KBL) are still to meet the paid up capital requirement.  The bank with highest paid up capital are Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 12.59 arba capital, Mega Bank Limited (MEGA) with Rs 10.39 arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 10.31 arba paid up capital.  With an industry average of Rs 6.28 arba, eight banks stand above the average range of Rs 6.28 arba in their reserve fund. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.65 arba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has maintained second position with Rs 14.52 arba reserve and surplus fund. Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 14.22 arba. The bank with least reserve and surplus is Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) with a reserve of Rs 1.64 arba.  The bank with highest growth in Reserve and Surplus as compared to last year is Nepal Bank Limited with a growth of 289%.  In an average, commercial banks have collected Rs 94.84 arba as deposit. Only 12 banks are above the average deposit collection. In the banking sector, the deposit collection will play a major role in the upcoming days. All the banks have the same range of paid up capital which is equal or above Rs 8 arba. So, the commercial banks are going through a severe competition with each other in order to attract the deposit clients. As of the second quarter of FY 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.81 kharba. NIC Asia is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 1.75 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.49 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 43.08 arba only.  The total deposit collected by the industry is Rs 26.55 kharba. Mega Bank Limited had the highest growth in deposits compared with deposits of last year. The bank’s deposit portfolio grew by 55%.  In today’s context, the concern of commercial banks simply does not rest upon which bank has more loans. Today’s concern is upon the loan portfolio that the banks have been able to create. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.49 kharba. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.34 kharba. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.30 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 43.55 arba.  The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 84.46 arba. 13 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 84.46 arba. The total loan disbursed is Rs 23.64 kharba. The bank with highest growth in loan portfolio compared with the second quarter of last year is Mega Bank Limited. The growth rate of the bank is 62% in loan portfolio.  This free profit/loss is related with the statement of reconciliation published in financial reports.  Commercial banks are required to reconcile profit between NFRS financials and NRB Directives, 2074 based financials. The bank with highest free profit after regulatory adjustment is Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is Rs 2.17 arba. In the second position, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the second highest free profit after regulatory adjustment that accounts to Rs 2.04 arba. It is further followed by Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) with an amount of Rs 1.72 arba.  The industry average free profit after regulatory adjustment accounts to Rs 96.68 crore. Major indicators: With the increment in the paid-up capital requirement, the EPS of these banks were expected to fall. However, some commercial banks have managed to maintain their EPS better than others. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 54.28 per share. Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second highest EPS of Rs 53.33 per share. Everest bank limited (EBL) in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 35.36 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 9.01 per share.  The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 25.61. Ten commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. NIC Asia Bank limited is the bank with highest growth of 141% in EPS of this year compared with last quarter in the same period.  (In the old format, investors calculated EPS through “net profit divided by no. of outstanding shares”. However, the EPS calculation is not possible through the same approach in context of NFRS format. Under NFRS, Weighted number of outstanding shares is taken to calculate EPS. Hence, investors should rely on the published EPS.) The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 300.28 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the second position with Rs 280.57. Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q2 of FY 2075/76 i.e. Rs 238.20. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 120.34 per share.  The industry average net worth stands around Rs 170.35 per share. 10 companies have net worth more than the industry average. Nepal Bank Limited is the bank with highest growth in terms of net worth per share. The growth is 84%.  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the least PE ratio of 8.41 times. It is followed by Prabhu Bank Limited (PRVU) with PE ratio of 9.32 times and finally Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) has highest PE ratio of 19.27 times.  17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 12.25 times. This figure suggests that commercial banks are cheaper than expected. In a nutshell: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 28 commercial banks as of the second quarter of FY 2075/76:   Dear investors, please feel free to share your investment decision after the performance evaluation of key indicators of these commercial banks. "
2019-02-03,Lending and borrowing between banks gets hype after NRB grants luxury to include it in CCD ratio; 3.71% hike in interbank rate in one month,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/lending-and-borrowing-between-banks-gets-hype-after-nrb-grants-luxury-to-include-it-in-ccd-ratio-371-hike-in-interbank-rate-in-one-month,
2019-01-31,Ajod insurance and Nabil Bank in a single page under bancassurance pact,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/ajod-insurance-and-nabil-bank-in-a-single-page-under-bancassurance-pact,
2019-01-30,What is the minimum and maximum interest rate charged by commercial banks on margin type loan? Look at the base rate and net interest spread of all commercial banks,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/what-is-the-minimum-and-maximum-interest-rate-charged-by-commercial-banks-on-margin-type-loan-look-at-the-base-rate-and-net-interest-spread-of-all-commercial-banks,
2019-01-30,NABIL Bank's posted 18.45% & 84.90% growth in net profit & Reserves in 6 months; EPS and networth stands at Rs 54.28 & Rs 280.57,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-posted-1845-8490-growth-in-net-profit-reserves-in-6-months-eps-and-networth-stands-at-rs-5428-rs-28057,
2019-01-30,ICRA Nepal re-affirms high-credit-quality Rating to Nabil Bank; rates the bank with ICRANP-IR AA- indicating low credit risk,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/icra-nepal-re-affirms-high-credit-quality-rating-to-nabil-bank-rates-the-bank-with-icranp-ir-aa-indicating-low-credit-risk,
2019-01-20,"Despite being the most regulated sector, commercial banks behind on conducting AGM; What can investors expect?",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/despite-being-the-most-regulated-sector-commercial-banks-behind-on-conducting-agm-what-can-investors-expect,
2018-12-28,Stocks of many companies are in the bullish zone despite bearish market trend; have you invested in any of those companies?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/stocks-of-many-companies-are-in-the-bullish-zone-despite-bearish-market-trend-have-you-invested-in-any-of-those-companies,
2018-12-27,Increased limit for margin type loans; How much more can the commercial banks float?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/increased-limit-for-margin-type-loans-how-much-more-can-the-commercial-banks-float,
2018-12-26,NABIL Bank also joins connectIPS e-Payment System,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-also-joins-connectips-e-payment-system,
2018-12-21,New interest rates offered by Commercial Banks after backlash from Governor; interest rates fluctuate like share prices in past weeks,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/new-interest-rates-offered-by-commercial-banks-after-backlash-from-governor-interest-rates-fluctuate-like-share-prices-in-past-weeks,
2018-12-18,NABIL and HBL increase interest rate on fixed deposit to 13% p.a. for individuals,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-and-hbl-increase-interest-rate-on-fixed-deposit-to-13-pa-for-individuals,
2018-12-13,Nabil Bank partners with Union Pay International to launch Quick Response Payment Service,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-partners-with-union-pay-international-to-launch-quick-response-payment-service,
2018-12-12,Market Capitalization: What is it good for? Does the size of a company actually matter?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/market-capitalization-what-is-it-good-for-does-the-size-of-a-company-actually-matter,
2018-12-11,What is the interest rate offered by commercial banks after NBA calls end of gentleman’s agreement?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/what-is-the-interest-rate-offered-by-commercial-banks-after-nba-calls-end-of-gentlemans-agreement,
2018-12-11,Will Rastriya Beema Company “shower” its shareholders with returns? Massive dividends inflow from NIBL and NABIL,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/will-rastriya-beema-company-shower-its-shareholders-with-returns-massive-dividends-inflow-from-nibl-and-nabil,
2018-12-11,Nabil Bank Card Customers to get special privileges at Dirghayu Guru Hospital & Research Centre,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-card-customers-to-get-special-privileges-at-dirghayu-guru-hospital-research-centre,
2018-12-10,What is the absolute gain or loss of your investment? Look at the secondary market performance of commercial banks post revelation of capital increment,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/what-is-the-absolute-gain-or-loss-of-your-investment-look-at-the-secondary-market-performance-of-commercial-banks-post-revelation-of-capital-increment,
2018-12-04,Nabil Bank proposes 34% dividend for the FY 2074/75; Paid-up capital to reach Rs 9 arba after 12% bonus shares,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-proposes-34-dividend-for-the-fy-207475-paid-up-capital-to-reach-rs-9-arba-after-12-bonus-shares,
2018-12-04,Nabil Bank inks Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Kantipur Dental College  Teaching Hospital & Research Center Pvt. Ltd.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inks-memorandum-of-understanding-mou-with-kantipur-dental-college-teaching-hospital-research-center-pvt-ltd,
2018-12-02,"NEPSE index hits 35 months low with commercial banks approaching their 52-weeks low price; In a BFIs dominated bourse, what does it implicate for investors?",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nepse-index-hits-35-months-low-with-commercial-banks-approaching-their-52-weeks-low-price-in-a-bfis-dominated-bourse-what-does-it-implicate-for-investors,
2018-12-02,Nabil Bank launches Nabil Visa Cash Back Scheme with 10% cash back offer; good news for customers wishing for cash back this Christmas season,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-nabil-visa-cash-back-scheme-with-10-cash-back-offer-good-news-for-customers-wishing-for-cash-back-this-christmas-season,
2018-11-29,How have commercial banks performed relative to Q1 of last year?; It's important to know because the best form of comparison is with your previous self,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/how-have-commercial-banks-performed-relative-to-q1-of-last-year-its-important-to-know-because-the-best-form-of-comparison-is-with-your-previous-self,
2018-11-25,Nabil Bank introduces biggest health coverage for its customers; claim of Rs 3 lakh on diagnosis of fatal disease,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-introduces-biggest-health-coverage-for-its-customers-claim-of-rs-3-lakh-on-diagnosis-of-fatal-disease,
2018-11-19,Three commercial banks in billionaire club; Loan and deposit crosses mark of Rs 20 kharba; Rastriya Banijya Bank leads in profit: A comparative analysis of commercial banks for Q1,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/three-commercial-banks-in-billionaire-club-loan-and-deposit-crosses-mark-of-rs-20-kharba-rastriya-banijya-bank-leads-in-profit-a-comparative-analysis-of-commercial-banks-for-q1,"Highlights: In Nepalese capital market, the first quarter financial reports hold a major significance to the individual and institutional investors. The nature of performance shown in the first quarter often predicts how the institute will be performing in the remaining fiscal year. Among the categorized financial institutes, listed in NEPSE, commercial banks occupy a larger market weightage. Thus, the performance of commercial banks are of concern to majority of investors. However, the new format i.e. NFRS adopted to publish quarterly reports have created hassle among investors. The purpose of the article is to reflect upon the financial status of the commercial banks and the definition of specimen in NFRS standard financial reports. The industry average in the article is calculated referring to 28 commercial banks. The financial report in NFRS format can be categorized into four segments: The former two will be of major concern in the further analysis. Profit/loss for the period: As per the net profit of first quarter of 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 1.11 arba. Similarly, Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) has the second highest net profit of Rs 1.05 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the net profit of Rs 1.05 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 18.51 CRORE. The industry average net profit of the 28 commercial banks is Rs 55.01 crore. 12 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks have net profit below the industry average. Find the details in the pictures below:    (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). In the NFRS format of financial statements, investors will find several types of income and profits. For instance, profit for the period, comprehensive income, distributable profit, profit after regulatory adjustments, etc. However, the actual profit can be determined through specimen “profit/loss for the period” of financial statement. Paid up capital: Paid up capital in NFRS refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The central bank of the country has directed these “A” categorized banks to meet the paid up capital requirement of at least 8 arba. Three banks namely Kumari Bank Limited (KBL), Bank of Kathmandu Limited (BOKL) and Nepal Credit and Commercial Bank (NCCB) are still to meet the paid up capital requirement. These commercial banks are also expected to meet the paid up capital requirement through dividend distribution. NCCB recently allotted 50% right shares worth Rs 2.33 arba out of which 0.79 crores share is unsubscribed. The unsubscribed shares will be auctioned later.  The bank with highest paid up capital are Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 10.65 arba capital, Mega Bank Limited (MEGA) with Rs 10.29 arba and Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) with Rs 9.81 arba paid up capital.    (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Reserve and surplus: Reserves are the funds earned by the company from a specific purpose which the company intends to use in the future. Surplus is the one point in balance sheet where P/L account and balance sheet interacts. For instance, the profit of the company resides in surplus. The profit/loss from “Net comprehensive income (NCI)” in P/L account is transferred to reserve and surplus of the balance sheet. NCI is derived from profit/loss generated from fair valuation through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and added to profit of the year. This income/loss is kept under “Component of equity” under reserve and surplus section of balance sheet. Dividends that commercial banks distribute is through surplus. With an industry average of Rs 6.52 arba, 9 banks stand above the average range of Rs 6.52 arba in their reserve fund. Under NFRS reporting, most of the banks’ reserves and surplus is higher compared to the old NRB directives’ format. It is  mainly because of valuation securities as per fair valuation methods. As each and every commercial bank adopted different paid up increment strategy, the impact is seen in the reserve and surplus fund of these banks. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.61 arba. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) has maintained second position with Rs 15.64 arba reserve and surplus fund. Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 14.70 arba. The bank with least reserve and surplus is Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) with a reserve of Rs 1.38 arba.    (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying).  Deposit collection: In an average among 28 banks of the country, a bank has collected Rs 90.40 arba as deposit. Only 12 banks are above the average deposit collection. In the banking sector, the deposit collection will play a major role in the upcoming days. All the banks except three banks have the same range of paid up capital which is equal or above Rs 8 arba. So, the commercial banks is going through a severe competition with each other in order to attract the deposit clients. As of the first quarter of FY 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.64 kharba. NIC Asia is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 1.63 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.43 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 39.44 arba only. The total deposit collected by the industry is Rs 25.31 kharba.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Loans and advances: With paid up capital of almost same ranges, competition among commercial banks implies even in bringing the loan clients. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.39 kharba. NABIL Bank (NABIL) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.28 kharba. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.24 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 41.95 arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 80.85 arba. 12 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 80.85 arba. The total loan disbursed is Rs 22.63 kharba. Find the details in the pictures below:   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Free profit/loss after regulatory adjustments: The commercial banks are further required to calculate the free profit/loss after regulatory adjustment. This free profit/loss is related with the statement of reconciliation published in financial reports. The commercial banks are required to reconcile profit between NFRS financials and NRB Directives, 2074 based financials. The bank with highest free profit after regulatory adjustment is Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) is Rs 1.05 arba. In the second position, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the second highest free profit after regulatory adjustment that accounts to Rs 97.92 crore. It is further followed by NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with an amount of Rs 93.32 crore. The industry average free profit after regulatory adjustment accounts to Rs 45.22 crore. (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Major indicators: Earnings per share (Annualized): With the increment in the paid-up capital requirement, the EPS of these banks were expected to fall. However, some commercial banks have managed to maintain their EPS better than others. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 51.36 per share. Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second highest EPS of Rs 49.71 per share.  Nepal Credit and Commercial Bank Limited (NCCB), with an unmet paid up capital stands in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 40.05 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 5.95 per share. The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 26.49. 13 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. In the old format, investors calculated EPS through “net profit divided by no. of outstanding shares”. However, the EPS calculation is not possible through the same approach in context of NFRS format. Under NFRS, Weighted number of outstanding shares is taken to calculate EPS.Hence, investors should rely on the published EPS.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). P/E Ratio: Again, Nepal Credit and Commercial Bank (NCCB), with an unmet paid up capital, has the least PE ratio of 5.24 times. It is followed by Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) with PE ratio of 7.39 times and finally Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has highest PE ratio of 27.90 times. 17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 13.88 times. This figure suggests that commercial banks are far cheaper than expected.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 299.89 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the second position with Rs 271.52. Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q1 of FY 2075/76 i.e. Rs 246.93. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 117.15 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 175.47 per share. 11 companies have net worth more than the industry average. Find out those companies in the table below.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). A full picture: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 28 commercial banks as of the first quarter of FY 2075/76:  (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Don’t forget to share your views on the performance of commercial banks in the first quarter of this fiscal year.   Highlights: In Nepalese capital market, the first quarter financial reports hold a major significance to the individual and institutional investors. The nature of performance shown in the first quarter often predicts how the institute will be performing in the remaining fiscal year. Among the categorized financial institutes, listed in NEPSE, commercial banks occupy a larger market weightage. Thus, the performance of commercial banks are of concern to majority of investors. However, the new format i.e. NFRS adopted to publish quarterly reports have created hassle among investors. The purpose of the article is to reflect upon the financial status of the commercial banks and the definition of specimen in NFRS standard financial reports. The industry average in the article is calculated referring to 28 commercial banks. The financial report in NFRS format can be categorized into four segments: The former two will be of major concern in the further analysis. Profit/loss for the period: As per the net profit of first quarter of 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 1.11 arba. Similarly, Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) has the second highest net profit of Rs 1.05 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the net profit of Rs 1.05 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 18.51 CRORE. The industry average net profit of the 28 commercial banks is Rs 55.01 crore. 12 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks have net profit below the industry average. Find the details in the pictures below:    (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). In the NFRS format of financial statements, investors will find several types of income and profits. For instance, profit for the period, comprehensive income, distributable profit, profit after regulatory adjustments, etc. However, the actual profit can be determined through specimen “profit/loss for the period” of financial statement. Paid up capital: Paid up capital in NFRS refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The central bank of the country has directed these “A” categorized banks to meet the paid up capital requirement of at least 8 arba. Three banks namely Kumari Bank Limited (KBL), Bank of Kathmandu Limited (BOKL) and Nepal Credit and Commercial Bank (NCCB) are still to meet the paid up capital requirement. These commercial banks are also expected to meet the paid up capital requirement through dividend distribution. NCCB recently allotted 50% right shares worth Rs 2.33 arba out of which 0.79 crores share is unsubscribed. The unsubscribed shares will be auctioned later.  The bank with highest paid up capital are Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 10.65 arba capital, Mega Bank Limited (MEGA) with Rs 10.29 arba and Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) with Rs 9.81 arba paid up capital.    (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Reserve and surplus: Reserves are the funds earned by the company from a specific purpose which the company intends to use in the future. Surplus is the one point in balance sheet where P/L account and balance sheet interacts. For instance, the profit of the company resides in surplus. The profit/loss from “Net comprehensive income (NCI)” in P/L account is transferred to reserve and surplus of the balance sheet. NCI is derived from profit/loss generated from fair valuation through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and added to profit of the year. This income/loss is kept under “Component of equity” under reserve and surplus section of balance sheet. Dividends that commercial banks distribute is through surplus. With an industry average of Rs 6.52 arba, 9 banks stand above the average range of Rs 6.52 arba in their reserve fund. Under NFRS reporting, most of the banks’ reserves and surplus is higher compared to the old NRB directives’ format. It is  mainly because of valuation securities as per fair valuation methods. As each and every commercial bank adopted different paid up increment strategy, the impact is seen in the reserve and surplus fund of these banks. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.61 arba. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) has maintained second position with Rs 15.64 arba reserve and surplus fund. Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 14.70 arba. The bank with least reserve and surplus is Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) with a reserve of Rs 1.38 arba.    (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying).  Deposit collection: In an average among 28 banks of the country, a bank has collected Rs 90.40 arba as deposit. Only 12 banks are above the average deposit collection. In the banking sector, the deposit collection will play a major role in the upcoming days. All the banks except three banks have the same range of paid up capital which is equal or above Rs 8 arba. So, the commercial banks is going through a severe competition with each other in order to attract the deposit clients. As of the first quarter of FY 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.64 kharba. NIC Asia is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 1.63 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.43 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 39.44 arba only. The total deposit collected by the industry is Rs 25.31 kharba.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Loans and advances: With paid up capital of almost same ranges, competition among commercial banks implies even in bringing the loan clients. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.39 kharba. NABIL Bank (NABIL) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.28 kharba. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.24 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 41.95 arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 80.85 arba. 12 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 80.85 arba. The total loan disbursed is Rs 22.63 kharba. Find the details in the pictures below:   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Free profit/loss after regulatory adjustments: The commercial banks are further required to calculate the free profit/loss after regulatory adjustment. This free profit/loss is related with the statement of reconciliation published in financial reports. The commercial banks are required to reconcile profit between NFRS financials and NRB Directives, 2074 based financials. The bank with highest free profit after regulatory adjustment is Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) is Rs 1.05 arba. In the second position, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the second highest free profit after regulatory adjustment that accounts to Rs 97.92 crore. It is further followed by NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with an amount of Rs 93.32 crore. The industry average free profit after regulatory adjustment accounts to Rs 45.22 crore. (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Major indicators: Earnings per share (Annualized): With the increment in the paid-up capital requirement, the EPS of these banks were expected to fall. However, some commercial banks have managed to maintain their EPS better than others. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 51.36 per share. Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second highest EPS of Rs 49.71 per share.  Nepal Credit and Commercial Bank Limited (NCCB), with an unmet paid up capital stands in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 40.05 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 5.95 per share. The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 26.49. 13 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. In the old format, investors calculated EPS through “net profit divided by no. of outstanding shares”. However, the EPS calculation is not possible through the same approach in context of NFRS format. Under NFRS, Weighted number of outstanding shares is taken to calculate EPS.Hence, investors should rely on the published EPS.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). P/E Ratio: Again, Nepal Credit and Commercial Bank (NCCB), with an unmet paid up capital, has the least PE ratio of 5.24 times. It is followed by Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) with PE ratio of 7.39 times and finally Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has highest PE ratio of 27.90 times. 17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 13.88 times. This figure suggests that commercial banks are far cheaper than expected.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 299.89 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the second position with Rs 271.52. Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q1 of FY 2075/76 i.e. Rs 246.93. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 117.15 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 175.47 per share. 11 companies have net worth more than the industry average. Find out those companies in the table below.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). A full picture: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 28 commercial banks as of the first quarter of FY 2075/76:  (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Don’t forget to share your views on the performance of commercial banks in the first quarter of this fiscal year.   Highlights: In Nepalese capital market, the first quarter financial reports hold a major significance to the individual and institutional investors. The nature of performance shown in the first quarter often predicts how the institute will be performing in the remaining fiscal year. Among the categorized financial institutes, listed in NEPSE, commercial banks occupy a larger market weightage. Thus, the performance of commercial banks are of concern to majority of investors. However, the new format i.e. NFRS adopted to publish quarterly reports have created hassle among investors. The purpose of the article is to reflect upon the financial status of the commercial banks and the definition of specimen in NFRS standard financial reports. The industry average in the article is calculated referring to 28 commercial banks. The financial report in NFRS format can be categorized into four segments: The former two will be of major concern in the further analysis. Profit/loss for the period: As per the net profit of first quarter of 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 1.11 arba. Similarly, Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) has the second highest net profit of Rs 1.05 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the net profit of Rs 1.05 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 18.51 CRORE. The industry average net profit of the 28 commercial banks is Rs 55.01 crore. 12 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks have net profit below the industry average. Find the details in the pictures below:    (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). In the NFRS format of financial statements, investors will find several types of income and profits. For instance, profit for the period, comprehensive income, distributable profit, profit after regulatory adjustments, etc. However, the actual profit can be determined through specimen “profit/loss for the period” of financial statement. Paid up capital: Paid up capital in NFRS refers to the amount of money that commercial banks have received from their shareholders through the exchange of shares in the primary market. The central bank of the country has directed these “A” categorized banks to meet the paid up capital requirement of at least 8 arba. Three banks namely Kumari Bank Limited (KBL), Bank of Kathmandu Limited (BOKL) and Nepal Credit and Commercial Bank (NCCB) are still to meet the paid up capital requirement. These commercial banks are also expected to meet the paid up capital requirement through dividend distribution. NCCB recently allotted 50% right shares worth Rs 2.33 arba out of which 0.79 crores share is unsubscribed. The unsubscribed shares will be auctioned later.  The bank with highest paid up capital are Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 10.65 arba capital, Mega Bank Limited (MEGA) with Rs 10.29 arba and Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) with Rs 9.81 arba paid up capital.    (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Reserve and surplus: Reserves are the funds earned by the company from a specific purpose which the company intends to use in the future. Surplus is the one point in balance sheet where P/L account and balance sheet interacts. For instance, the profit of the company resides in surplus. The profit/loss from “Net comprehensive income (NCI)” in P/L account is transferred to reserve and surplus of the balance sheet. NCI is derived from profit/loss generated from fair valuation through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and added to profit of the year. This income/loss is kept under “Component of equity” under reserve and surplus section of balance sheet. Dividends that commercial banks distribute is through surplus. With an industry average of Rs 6.52 arba, 9 banks stand above the average range of Rs 6.52 arba in their reserve fund. Under NFRS reporting, most of the banks’ reserves and surplus is higher compared to the old NRB directives’ format. It is  mainly because of valuation securities as per fair valuation methods. As each and every commercial bank adopted different paid up increment strategy, the impact is seen in the reserve and surplus fund of these banks. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 19.61 arba. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) has maintained second position with Rs 15.64 arba reserve and surplus fund. Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) is in the third position with reserve and surplus of Rs 14.70 arba. The bank with least reserve and surplus is Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) with a reserve of Rs 1.38 arba.    (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying).  Deposit collection: In an average among 28 banks of the country, a bank has collected Rs 90.40 arba as deposit. Only 12 banks are above the average deposit collection. In the banking sector, the deposit collection will play a major role in the upcoming days. All the banks except three banks have the same range of paid up capital which is equal or above Rs 8 arba. So, the commercial banks is going through a severe competition with each other in order to attract the deposit clients. As of the first quarter of FY 2075/76, Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.64 kharba. NIC Asia is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients with deposits of Rs 1.63 kharba. Similarly, the bank is followed by NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.43 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 39.44 arba only. The total deposit collected by the industry is Rs 25.31 kharba.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Loans and advances: With paid up capital of almost same ranges, competition among commercial banks implies even in bringing the loan clients. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by NICA Bank Limited (NICA) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.39 kharba. NABIL Bank (NABIL) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.28 kharba. Nepal Investment Bank Limited (NIB) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.24 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 41.95 arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 80.85 arba. 12 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 80.85 arba. The total loan disbursed is Rs 22.63 kharba. Find the details in the pictures below:   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Free profit/loss after regulatory adjustments: The commercial banks are further required to calculate the free profit/loss after regulatory adjustment. This free profit/loss is related with the statement of reconciliation published in financial reports. The commercial banks are required to reconcile profit between NFRS financials and NRB Directives, 2074 based financials. The bank with highest free profit after regulatory adjustment is Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) is Rs 1.05 arba. In the second position, Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the second highest free profit after regulatory adjustment that accounts to Rs 97.92 crore. It is further followed by NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with an amount of Rs 93.32 crore. The industry average free profit after regulatory adjustment accounts to Rs 45.22 crore. (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Major indicators: Earnings per share (Annualized): With the increment in the paid-up capital requirement, the EPS of these banks were expected to fall. However, some commercial banks have managed to maintain their EPS better than others. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 51.36 per share. Rastra Banijya Bank (RBB) has the second highest EPS of Rs 49.71 per share.  Nepal Credit and Commercial Bank Limited (NCCB), with an unmet paid up capital stands in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 40.05 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 5.95 per share. The average EPS of 28 commercial banks stands at Rs 26.49. 13 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average. In the old format, investors calculated EPS through “net profit divided by no. of outstanding shares”. However, the EPS calculation is not possible through the same approach in context of NFRS format. Under NFRS, Weighted number of outstanding shares is taken to calculate EPS.Hence, investors should rely on the published EPS.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). P/E Ratio: Again, Nepal Credit and Commercial Bank (NCCB), with an unmet paid up capital, has the least PE ratio of 5.24 times. It is followed by Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) with PE ratio of 7.39 times and finally Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has highest PE ratio of 27.90 times. 17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 13.88 times. This figure suggests that commercial banks are far cheaper than expected.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 299.89 which belongs to Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the second position with Rs 271.52. Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) has the third highest net worth per share as of Q1 of FY 2075/76 i.e. Rs 246.93. Century Commercial Bank Limited (CCBL) has the least net worth of Rs 117.15 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 175.47 per share. 11 companies have net worth more than the industry average. Find out those companies in the table below.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). A full picture: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 28 commercial banks as of the first quarter of FY 2075/76:  (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Don’t forget to share your views on the performance of commercial banks in the first quarter of this fiscal year.   "
2018-11-16,Nabil Bank joins the billionaire’s club in the first quarter; Profit rises by 24.20% with EPS standing at Rs 52.59,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-joins-the-billionaires-club-in-the-first-quarter-profit-rises-by-2420-with-eps-standing-at-rs-5259,
2018-11-04,Nabil Bank’s Card holders to get special privileges at Norvic International Hospital & Medical College,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-card-holders-to-get-special-privileges-at-norvic-international-hospital-medical-college,
2018-10-24,Which Bank is better for saving and fixed deposit? Comparative interest rate analysis of six banks,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/which-bank-is-better-for-saving-and-fixed-deposit-comparative-interest-rate-analysis-of-six-banks,
2018-10-15,Nabil Bank “Banking Partner” of Pokhara Premier League,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-banking-partner-of-pokhara-premier-league,
2018-10-07,Nabil Bank Card Customers to get special privileges at Nepal Cancer Hospital and Research Centre,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-card-customers-to-get-special-privileges-at-nepal-cancer-hospital-and-research-centre,
2018-10-02,SS Pro now includes adjusted prices in its full-fledged LIVE charting software!,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/ss-pro-now-includes-adjusted-prices-in-its-full-fledged-live-charting-software,"SS Pro has introduced Adjusted Prices in all companies in its in-built charting software. Now, historical prices of all companies will be adjusted whenever their price is adjusted in NEPSE due to any bonus share, cash dividend or right share issue. Study of adjusted price instead of unadjusted price helps chartists analyze historical returns easily. Examples: The chart below is unadjusted price of Nabil Bank (NABIL) since 2011. At a simple glance, it might seem that investors who bought NABIL around mid-2012 are in loss today. The following chart is the adjusted price of NABIL, which shows that the price of NABIL is in increasing trend and investors who bought NABIL around mid-2012 are very much in profit. When are prices adjusted in NEPSE? NEPSE adjusts prices of companies on the book closure date of any dividend or right issue. For example, prices of Janaki Finance (JFL) and Shine Resunga Development Bank (SHINE) were adjusted today in NEPSE as today was book closure for their 22% bonus share and 17.70% bonus share respectively. The adjusted prices of JFL and SHINE are already available LIVE in SS Pro. Prices are also adjusted in case of cash dividends if the issued cash dividend is equal to or more than 10% of the last traded price of the stock. How to see adjusted price in SS Pro? Adjusted Prices are included in the charting software, and can be accessed from Charts Analysis section and Tearsheet in SS Pro. At the top, there are two buttons through which the users can toggle between Adjusted or Unadjusted Prices. If adjusted price is selected, the button turns green and vice-versa. Save Chart Layout in SS Pro easily Users can also save their charts, drawings and all analyses by clicking on the ""Save Layout"" button. About SS Pro SS Pro is ShareSansar's latest product for general investors of all shapes and sizes. It includes free built-in portfolio tracker, advanced fundamental and technical analysis tools, live charting software, Nepal's 1st Market Confidence Meter, 1st Investment Worth Calculator and many other features to help Nepali stock market investors make informed investment decisions. > More Details about SS Pro > Access SS Pro Here SS Pro has introduced Adjusted Prices in all companies in its in-built charting software. Now, historical prices of all companies will be adjusted whenever their price is adjusted in NEPSE due to any bonus share, cash dividend or right share issue. Study of adjusted price instead of unadjusted price helps chartists analyze historical returns easily. Examples: The chart below is unadjusted price of Nabil Bank (NABIL) since 2011. At a simple glance, it might seem that investors who bought NABIL around mid-2012 are in loss today. The following chart is the adjusted price of NABIL, which shows that the price of NABIL is in increasing trend and investors who bought NABIL around mid-2012 are very much in profit. When are prices adjusted in NEPSE? NEPSE adjusts prices of companies on the book closure date of any dividend or right issue. For example, prices of Janaki Finance (JFL) and Shine Resunga Development Bank (SHINE) were adjusted today in NEPSE as today was book closure for their 22% bonus share and 17.70% bonus share respectively. The adjusted prices of JFL and SHINE are already available LIVE in SS Pro. Prices are also adjusted in case of cash dividends if the issued cash dividend is equal to or more than 10% of the last traded price of the stock. How to see adjusted price in SS Pro? Adjusted Prices are included in the charting software, and can be accessed from Charts Analysis section and Tearsheet in SS Pro. At the top, there are two buttons through which the users can toggle between Adjusted or Unadjusted Prices. If adjusted price is selected, the button turns green and vice-versa. Save Chart Layout in SS Pro easily Users can also save their charts, drawings and all analyses by clicking on the ""Save Layout"" button. About SS Pro SS Pro is ShareSansar's latest product for general investors of all shapes and sizes. It includes free built-in portfolio tracker, advanced fundamental and technical analysis tools, live charting software, Nepal's 1st Market Confidence Meter, 1st Investment Worth Calculator and many other features to help Nepali stock market investors make informed investment decisions. > More Details about SS Pro > Access SS Pro Here SS Pro has introduced Adjusted Prices in all companies in its in-built charting software. Now, historical prices of all companies will be adjusted whenever their price is adjusted in NEPSE due to any bonus share, cash dividend or right share issue. Study of adjusted price instead of unadjusted price helps chartists analyze historical returns easily. Examples: The chart below is unadjusted price of Nabil Bank (NABIL) since 2011. At a simple glance, it might seem that investors who bought NABIL around mid-2012 are in loss today. The following chart is the adjusted price of NABIL, which shows that the price of NABIL is in increasing trend and investors who bought NABIL around mid-2012 are very much in profit. When are prices adjusted in NEPSE? NEPSE adjusts prices of companies on the book closure date of any dividend or right issue. For example, prices of Janaki Finance (JFL) and Shine Resunga Development Bank (SHINE) were adjusted today in NEPSE as today was book closure for their 22% bonus share and 17.70% bonus share respectively. The adjusted prices of JFL and SHINE are already available LIVE in SS Pro. Prices are also adjusted in case of cash dividends if the issued cash dividend is equal to or more than 10% of the last traded price of the stock. How to see adjusted price in SS Pro? Adjusted Prices are included in the charting software, and can be accessed from Charts Analysis section and Tearsheet in SS Pro. At the top, there are two buttons through which the users can toggle between Adjusted or Unadjusted Prices. If adjusted price is selected, the button turns green and vice-versa. Save Chart Layout in SS Pro easily Users can also save their charts, drawings and all analyses by clicking on the ""Save Layout"" button. About SS Pro SS Pro is ShareSansar's latest product for general investors of all shapes and sizes. It includes free built-in portfolio tracker, advanced fundamental and technical analysis tools, live charting software, Nepal's 1st Market Confidence Meter, 1st Investment Worth Calculator and many other features to help Nepali stock market investors make informed investment decisions. > More Details about SS Pro > Access SS Pro Here "
2018-09-28,MOU renewed between Nabil Foundation and Tilganga Institute of Ophthalmology,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/mou-renewed-between-nabil-foundation-and-tilganga-institute-of-ophthalmology,
2018-09-24,Nabil Bank Card Customers to get special privileges at Grande International Hospital,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-card-customers-to-get-special-privileges-at-grande-international-hospital,
2018-09-23,Just how popular are commercial bank stocks among Investors? Check out last month’s performance exclusively from SS Pro,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/just-how-popular-are-commercial-bank-stocks-among-investors-check-out-last-months-performance-exclusively-from-ss-pro,
2018-09-21,Instant Issuance of Travel Medical Insurance with Nabil Bank’s Travel related Services,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/instant-issuance-of-travel-medical-insurance-with-nabil-banks-travel-related-services,
2018-09-03,Nabil Bank launches improvised Education Loan,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-improvised-education-loan,
2018-09-03,Nabil Bank brings out Nabil Visa Cash Back Scheme; customers eligible to receive upto 20% cash back while using Nabil cards,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-brings-out-nabil-visa-cash-back-scheme-customers-eligible-to-receive-upto-20-cash-back-while-using-nabil-cards,
2018-08-28,Commercial Banks’ investment in Human Assets; An Important Decision,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-investment-in-human-assets-an-important-decision,
2018-08-26,Worried about the banks offering only cash dividend? Check the expected dividend paying capacity of commercial banks and their possible priorities (bonus or cash),https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/worried-about-the-banks-offering-only-cash-dividend-check-the-expected-dividend-paying-capacity-of-commercial-banks-and-their-possible-priorities-bonus-or-cash,
2018-08-23,Know which Banks are most successful in utilizing assets to earn high profit,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/know-which-banks-are-most-successful-in-utilizing-assets-to-earn-high-profit,
2018-08-22,Exclusive study of Marginal Loan as per Q4 reports; 51 Arba yet to be dispersed for investment,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/exclusive-study-of-marginal-loan-as-per-q4-reports-51-arba-yet-to-be-dispersed-for-investment,
2018-08-21,Nabil Bank to lead the consortium loan for Upper Trishuli 3B; 3 institutions to provide Rs 5.76 arba for the project,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-lead-the-consortium-loan-for-upper-trishuli-3b-3-institutions-to-provide-rs-576-arba-for-the-project,
2018-08-21,Mr Malay Mukherjee appointed as new director to represent NB International in Nabil Bank,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/mr-malay-mukherjee-appointed-as-new-director-to-represent-nb-international-in-nabil-bank,
2018-08-19,Base rates of commercial banks have decreased with savings & fixed deposit rates; at what rates do they provide share loans? (With full list of 28 commercial banks),https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/base-rates-of-commercial-banks-have-decreased-with-savings-fixed-deposit-rates-at-what-rates-do-they-provide-share-loans-with-full-list-of-28-commercial-banks,
2018-08-16,The commercial banking industry and the individual commercial banks: Does the bank of your choice lie above or below the industry average? NFRS and non-NFRS,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/the-commercial-banking-industry-and-the-individual-commercial-banks-does-the-bank-of-your-choice-lie-above-or-below-the-industry-average-nfrs-and-non-nfrs,"The publication of financial reports created a hassle among investors due to the delay in publication. After the publication of financial reports by 27 commercial banks, the performance of these banks can be summed up from the following figure:  All these banks except Rastra Banijya Bank Limited have published their fourth quarter financial reports of 74/75 FY and thus, the article provides an analysis on their financial status. The industry average in the article is calculated referring to only 27 commercial banks. From the viewpoint of NFRS: As per the NFRS report, the distributable profit in the statement has helped investors identify the ability of commercial banks to distribute dividends. For instance, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest distributable profit of Rs 4.05 arba followed by Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) wit distributable profit of Rs 3.67 arba and finally Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with distributable profit of Rs 3.57 arba. As per the distributable profit, the maximum return giving capacity can also be evaluated. The maximum return giving capacity is in the same alignment with distributable profit compromising NABIL and ADBL in top positions. The third position is taken by Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). In order to understand the details, please observe the tables:   Comparison of commercial banks’ performance in accordance to industry average (As per old format): Net profit: As per the net profit of fourth quarter of 2074/75, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 4.05 arba. Similarly, Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the second highest net profit of Rs 3.67 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) has the net profit of Rs 3.58 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 0.65 arba. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.81 arba. 11 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks have net profit below the industry average. Find the details in the pictures below:   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Paid up capital: The central bank of the country has directed these “A” categorized banks to meet the paid up capital requirement of at least 8 arba. Most of the banks have met the paid up capital requirement except NMB Bank Limited, Kumari Bank Limited, Bank of Kathmandu Limited and Nepal Credit & Commercial Bank Limited. NMB Bank Limited has already conducted AGM in order to distribute the dividend to meet the paid up capital. The remaining commercial banks are also expected to meet the paid up capital requirement through dividend distribution. The bank with highest paid up capital are Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 10.65 arba capital, Mega Bank Limited with Rs 10.28 arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 8.89 arba paid up capital. The industry average paid up capital stands at Rs 8.10 arba for the commercial banks. 10 of these banks have a paid up capital above this mark. Find where the bank of your choice lies.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Reserve and surplus: With an industry average of Rs 4.63 arba, 10 banks stand above the average range of Rs 4.63 arba in their reserve fund. As each and every commercial bank adopted different paid up increment strategy, the impact is seen in the reserve and surplus fund of these banks. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 11.66 arba. Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has maintained second position with Rs 11.54 arba reserve and surplus fund. The bank with least reserve and surplus is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) having a reserve of Rs 1.41 arba.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying).  Deposit collection: In an average among 27 banks of the country, a bank has collected Rs 85.27 arba as deposit. Only 10 banks are above the average deposit collection. In the banking sector, the deposit collection will play a major role in the upcoming days. All the banks except four banks have the same range of paid up capital which is equal or above Rs 8 arba. So, the commercial banks will go through a severe competition with each other in order to attract the deposit clients. As of the fourth quarter of FY 2074/75, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.51 kharba. NIC Asia is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients. Similarly, the bank is followed by Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) and NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.40 kharba and Rs 1.35 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 40.01 arba only.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Loans and advances: With paid up capital of almost same ranges, competition among commercial banks implies even in bringing the loan clients. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.22 kharba. NIC Asia Bank (NICA) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.20 kharba. NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.124 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 39.46 arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 73.37 arba. 12 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 73.37 arba. Find the details in the pictures below:   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Major indicators: Earning per share (Annualized): With the increment in the paid-up capital requirement, the EPS of these banks were expected to fall. However, some commercial banks have managed to maintain their EPS better than others. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 50.41 per share. Agriculture Development Bank (ADBL) in the second position with Rs 43.17.  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) stands in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 42.27 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 8.06 per share. The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 21.63. 14 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). P/E Ratio: Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the least PE ratio of 6.93 times followed by Nepal Credit & Commercial Bank Limited (NCCB) with PE ratio of 7.86 times and finally Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) with PE ratio of 9.70 times. 17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 15.93 times. The average PE ratio of 15.93 times in commercial banking sector is considered as the lowest among these many years of operation.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 234.66 of Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL). Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the second position with Rs 225.23. NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with an unmet paid up capital has the third highest net worth per share as of Q4 of FY 2074/75 i.e. Rs 214.40. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the least net worth of Rs 117.61 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 155.10 per share. 11 companies have net worth more than the industry average. Find out those companies in the table below.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). A full picture: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the fourth quarter of FY 2074/75:  (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Don’t forget to share your views on the performance of commercial banks in the last Fiscal Year. The publication of financial reports created a hassle among investors due to the delay in publication. After the publication of financial reports by 27 commercial banks, the performance of these banks can be summed up from the following figure:  All these banks except Rastra Banijya Bank Limited have published their fourth quarter financial reports of 74/75 FY and thus, the article provides an analysis on their financial status. The industry average in the article is calculated referring to only 27 commercial banks. From the viewpoint of NFRS: As per the NFRS report, the distributable profit in the statement has helped investors identify the ability of commercial banks to distribute dividends. For instance, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest distributable profit of Rs 4.05 arba followed by Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) wit distributable profit of Rs 3.67 arba and finally Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with distributable profit of Rs 3.57 arba. As per the distributable profit, the maximum return giving capacity can also be evaluated. The maximum return giving capacity is in the same alignment with distributable profit compromising NABIL and ADBL in top positions. The third position is taken by Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). In order to understand the details, please observe the tables:   Comparison of commercial banks’ performance in accordance to industry average (As per old format): Net profit: As per the net profit of fourth quarter of 2074/75, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 4.05 arba. Similarly, Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the second highest net profit of Rs 3.67 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) has the net profit of Rs 3.58 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 0.65 arba. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.81 arba. 11 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks have net profit below the industry average. Find the details in the pictures below:   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Paid up capital: The central bank of the country has directed these “A” categorized banks to meet the paid up capital requirement of at least 8 arba. Most of the banks have met the paid up capital requirement except NMB Bank Limited, Kumari Bank Limited, Bank of Kathmandu Limited and Nepal Credit & Commercial Bank Limited. NMB Bank Limited has already conducted AGM in order to distribute the dividend to meet the paid up capital. The remaining commercial banks are also expected to meet the paid up capital requirement through dividend distribution. The bank with highest paid up capital are Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 10.65 arba capital, Mega Bank Limited with Rs 10.28 arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 8.89 arba paid up capital. The industry average paid up capital stands at Rs 8.10 arba for the commercial banks. 10 of these banks have a paid up capital above this mark. Find where the bank of your choice lies.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Reserve and surplus: With an industry average of Rs 4.63 arba, 10 banks stand above the average range of Rs 4.63 arba in their reserve fund. As each and every commercial bank adopted different paid up increment strategy, the impact is seen in the reserve and surplus fund of these banks. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 11.66 arba. Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has maintained second position with Rs 11.54 arba reserve and surplus fund. The bank with least reserve and surplus is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) having a reserve of Rs 1.41 arba.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying).  Deposit collection: In an average among 27 banks of the country, a bank has collected Rs 85.27 arba as deposit. Only 10 banks are above the average deposit collection. In the banking sector, the deposit collection will play a major role in the upcoming days. All the banks except four banks have the same range of paid up capital which is equal or above Rs 8 arba. So, the commercial banks will go through a severe competition with each other in order to attract the deposit clients. As of the fourth quarter of FY 2074/75, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.51 kharba. NIC Asia is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients. Similarly, the bank is followed by Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) and NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.40 kharba and Rs 1.35 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 40.01 arba only.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Loans and advances: With paid up capital of almost same ranges, competition among commercial banks implies even in bringing the loan clients. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.22 kharba. NIC Asia Bank (NICA) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.20 kharba. NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.124 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 39.46 arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 73.37 arba. 12 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 73.37 arba. Find the details in the pictures below:   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Major indicators: Earning per share (Annualized): With the increment in the paid-up capital requirement, the EPS of these banks were expected to fall. However, some commercial banks have managed to maintain their EPS better than others. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 50.41 per share. Agriculture Development Bank (ADBL) in the second position with Rs 43.17.  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) stands in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 42.27 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 8.06 per share. The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 21.63. 14 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). P/E Ratio: Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the least PE ratio of 6.93 times followed by Nepal Credit & Commercial Bank Limited (NCCB) with PE ratio of 7.86 times and finally Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) with PE ratio of 9.70 times. 17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 15.93 times. The average PE ratio of 15.93 times in commercial banking sector is considered as the lowest among these many years of operation.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 234.66 of Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL). Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the second position with Rs 225.23. NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with an unmet paid up capital has the third highest net worth per share as of Q4 of FY 2074/75 i.e. Rs 214.40. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the least net worth of Rs 117.61 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 155.10 per share. 11 companies have net worth more than the industry average. Find out those companies in the table below.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). A full picture: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the fourth quarter of FY 2074/75:  (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Don’t forget to share your views on the performance of commercial banks in the last Fiscal Year. The publication of financial reports created a hassle among investors due to the delay in publication. After the publication of financial reports by 27 commercial banks, the performance of these banks can be summed up from the following figure:  All these banks except Rastra Banijya Bank Limited have published their fourth quarter financial reports of 74/75 FY and thus, the article provides an analysis on their financial status. The industry average in the article is calculated referring to only 27 commercial banks. From the viewpoint of NFRS: As per the NFRS report, the distributable profit in the statement has helped investors identify the ability of commercial banks to distribute dividends. For instance, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) has the highest distributable profit of Rs 4.05 arba followed by Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) wit distributable profit of Rs 3.67 arba and finally Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with distributable profit of Rs 3.57 arba. As per the distributable profit, the maximum return giving capacity can also be evaluated. The maximum return giving capacity is in the same alignment with distributable profit compromising NABIL and ADBL in top positions. The third position is taken by Nepal Bank Limited (NBL). In order to understand the details, please observe the tables:   Comparison of commercial banks’ performance in accordance to industry average (As per old format): Net profit: As per the net profit of fourth quarter of 2074/75, Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the lead with a profit of Rs 4.05 arba. Similarly, Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has the second highest net profit of Rs 3.67 arba in the same quarter. In the third position, Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) has the net profit of Rs 3.58 arba. The bank with the least net profit is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) whose net profit amounts to Rs 0.65 arba. The industry average net profit of the 27 commercial banks is Rs 1.81 arba. 11 commercial banks have net profit above the industry average. Remaining all banks have net profit below the industry average. Find the details in the pictures below:   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Paid up capital: The central bank of the country has directed these “A” categorized banks to meet the paid up capital requirement of at least 8 arba. Most of the banks have met the paid up capital requirement except NMB Bank Limited, Kumari Bank Limited, Bank of Kathmandu Limited and Nepal Credit & Commercial Bank Limited. NMB Bank Limited has already conducted AGM in order to distribute the dividend to meet the paid up capital. The remaining commercial banks are also expected to meet the paid up capital requirement through dividend distribution. The bank with highest paid up capital are Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with Rs 10.65 arba capital, Mega Bank Limited with Rs 10.28 arba and Global IME Bank Limited (GBIME) with Rs 8.89 arba paid up capital. The industry average paid up capital stands at Rs 8.10 arba for the commercial banks. 10 of these banks have a paid up capital above this mark. Find where the bank of your choice lies.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Reserve and surplus: With an industry average of Rs 4.63 arba, 10 banks stand above the average range of Rs 4.63 arba in their reserve fund. As each and every commercial bank adopted different paid up increment strategy, the impact is seen in the reserve and surplus fund of these banks. In terms of reserves and surplus, Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) has maintained its lead with a reserve and surplus of Rs 11.66 arba. Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL) has maintained second position with Rs 11.54 arba reserve and surplus fund. The bank with least reserve and surplus is Civil Bank Limited (CBL) having a reserve of Rs 1.41 arba.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying).  Deposit collection: In an average among 27 banks of the country, a bank has collected Rs 85.27 arba as deposit. Only 10 banks are above the average deposit collection. In the banking sector, the deposit collection will play a major role in the upcoming days. All the banks except four banks have the same range of paid up capital which is equal or above Rs 8 arba. So, the commercial banks will go through a severe competition with each other in order to attract the deposit clients. As of the fourth quarter of FY 2074/75, NIC Asia Bank Limited (NICA) stands on top with total deposits worth Rs 1.51 kharba. NIC Asia is aggressively involved in collecting deposits from existing and prospective clients. Similarly, the bank is followed by Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) and NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) with the collected deposit of Rs 1.40 kharba and Rs 1.35 kharba respectively. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the lowest deposit collection of Rs. 40.01 arba only.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Loans and advances: With paid up capital of almost same ranges, competition among commercial banks implies even in bringing the loan clients. As shown in the figure, the top position in loans and advances is occupied by Nepal Investment Bank (NIB) with credit disbursement worth Rs 1.22 kharba. NIC Asia Bank (NICA) has a loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 1.20 kharba. NABIL Bank Limited (NABIL) has the loan portfolio of Rs 1.124 kharba. Similarly on the other end of the rope, stands Civil Bank Limited (CBL) with the lowest loan and advances portfolio of Rs. 39.46 arba. The industry average loan disbursed is Rs 73.37 arba. 12 commercial banks have the loan portfolio above Rs 73.37 arba. Find the details in the pictures below:   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Major indicators: Earning per share (Annualized): With the increment in the paid-up capital requirement, the EPS of these banks were expected to fall. However, some commercial banks have managed to maintain their EPS better than others. Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) becomes the bank to serve investors with highest annualized EPS of Rs 50.41 per share. Agriculture Development Bank (ADBL) in the second position with Rs 43.17.  Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) stands in the third position with annualized EPS of Rs 42.27 per share. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) stays at the bottom with an earning of Rs. 8.06 per share. The average EPS of 27 commercial banks stands at Rs 21.63. 14 commercial banks still provide EPS higher than that of the industry average.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). P/E Ratio: Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) has the least PE ratio of 6.93 times followed by Nepal Credit & Commercial Bank Limited (NCCB) with PE ratio of 7.86 times and finally Citizens Bank International Limited (CZBIL) with PE ratio of 9.70 times. 17 commercial banks have a P/E ratio lower than the industry average of 15.93 times. The average PE ratio of 15.93 times in commercial banking sector is considered as the lowest among these many years of operation.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Net worth per share: The highest net worth per share among these commercial banks is Rs 234.66 of Agriculture Development Bank Limited (ADBL). Nabil Bank Limited (NABIL) is in the second position with Rs 225.23. NMB Bank Limited (NMB) with an unmet paid up capital has the third highest net worth per share as of Q4 of FY 2074/75 i.e. Rs 214.40. Civil Bank Limited (CBL) has the least net worth of Rs 117.61 per share. The industry average net worth stands around Rs 155.10 per share. 11 companies have net worth more than the industry average. Find out those companies in the table below.   (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). A full picture: Finally the table below provides a full picture with major indicators of the 27 commercial banks as of the fourth quarter of FY 2074/75:  (Please download and study the image in case of difficulty upon studying). Don’t forget to share your views on the performance of commercial banks in the last Fiscal Year. "
2018-08-15,Nabil Bank’s net profit reaches over Rs 4 arba; EPS and Net worth per share stand at Rs 52.14 and Rs 259.53 respectively,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-net-profit-reaches-over-rs-4-arba-eps-and-net-worth-per-share-stand-at-rs-5214-and-rs-25953-respectively,
2018-08-07,Nabil Bank Debentures-2075 completes its term; debenture holders to receive money after submission of certificates,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-debentures-2075-completes-its-term-debenture-holders-to-receive-money-after-submission-of-certificates,
2018-08-01,Nabil Bank interacts with Educational Consultancy service providers to make education loans more effective,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-interacts-with-educational-consultancy-service-providers-to-make-education-loans-more-effective,
2018-07-29,Nabil Bank marks 34th anniversary with tree plantation and cleaning programs,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-marks-34th-anniversary-with-tree-plantation-and-cleaning-programs,
2018-07-25,Nabil Bank celebrates its 34th anniversary with futsal tournament for its employees,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-celebrates-its-34th-anniversary-with-futsal-tournament-for-its-employees,
2018-07-22,Know the deviation of Net Profit between unaudited and audited reports of commercial banks; it is risky to blindly trust only unaudited reports,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/know-the-deviation-of-net-profit-between-unaudited-and-audited-reports-of-commercial-banks-it-is-risky-to-blindly-trust-only-unaudited-reports,
2018-07-22,"Nabil Bank and Asian Net Company, Japan under agreement for remittance business",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-asian-net-company-japan-under-agreement-for-remittance-business,
2018-07-17,Nabil Bank occupies more than 28% of the total transaction; Huge sales recorded despite decrease in price,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-occupies-more-than-28-of-the-total-transaction-huge-sales-recorded-despite-decrease-in-price,
2018-07-17,Nabil Bank successfully inaugurates 12 new branches at Rural Municipalities,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-successfully-inaugurates-12-new-branches-at-rural-municipalities,
2018-07-17,Nabil Bank conducts Blood donation program,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-conducts-blood-donation-program,
2018-07-15,Nabil Bank's Debentures-2075 to be matured on Shrawan 22; Debenture holders can deposit their certificates from Shrawan 2,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-debentures-2075-to-be-matured-on-shrawan-22-debenture-holders-can-deposit-their-certificates-from-shrawan-2,
2018-07-12,Nabil Bank becomes first bank to execute requirement laid out by Monetary Policy 2075; to enroll 600 staffs to prestigious JANBI certification course of NBI,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-becomes-first-bank-to-execute-requirement-laid-out-by-monetary-policy-2075-to-enroll-600-staffs-to-prestigious-janbi-certification-course-of-nbi,
2018-07-08,Your ride is just about to begin! Four reasons why you should consider buying commercial bank’s stocks,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/your-ride-is-just-about-to-begin-four-reasons-why-you-should-consider-buying-commercial-banks-stocks,"What a roller coaster ride it has been to investors of the commercial banks! Ever wondered how your first roller coaster ride experience in the amusement park was like? Just like the coaster ride comes with your heart pounding, a lot of screaming and fear of losing your life, the recent years have been full of anticipations, excitement and fear of loss to the commercial banks’ shareholders. Then, right when you are getting used to the roller coaster ride, the time is up and all the excitement is gone. The present context for the investors of commercial bank is similar. All these mixed emotions will probably come to an end as most of the banks have now met their paid up capital plan. The exact time to put on the safety belts and take this roller coaster ride was back when investors came across the NRB’s directive to meet a paid up capital of Rs 8 arba. But, what about the time to experience the thrill? The experience of thrill came with the announcement of capital plan of these “A” graded commercial banks. Every single time the announcement of bonus share was done, investors got an opportunity to speculate.  For instance, news of bonus share would hike the price due to the increase in demand and right there was the thrill- the thrill to grab the profit. Remember, how the market reacted to Standard Chartered’s 100% bonus share and how smart players speculated so well? But there were also the time when we rechecked if our safety belt was locked properly just as we do during a roller coaster ride. For instance, we looked for the merger and acquisition news and sold our shares if we got a clue that our trading would be halted for a long period of time. Remember, The MEGA’s mega mysterious merger with Tourism Development Bank which took a year to be resolved?    However, as you read these above paragraphs, did you feel you have missed so many opportunities to earn? It’s just that you don’t belong to the group of friends who enjoy the thrill, the excitement and the fear. You are just one of those friends who stay down waiting for your friends to complete the roller coaster ride so that you can go and join some other games that are less risky. Meaning: you just did not wanted to be a part of the speculation of commercial banks scrips and stood buying and selling nothing. Well, this exact time is for you- the long term investors.  If you are the investor looking forward for less risk and a maximized value of wealth after a certain years,  then this might be exactly the best time to enter the market. For some of you with a long term vision, your ride is just about to begin! Commercial banks hold the highest portion of market capitalization in the Nepalese secondary market when compared to other eight sectors. Commercial banks, as defined, are the A class financial institutes of the country. These banks are relied upon by other smaller banks and financial institutes for several motives. Nepal Rastra Bank usually prioritizes its effort to facilitate the development of these commercial banks. As of today, the stocks of commercial banks are considered to be better than the other sectorial stocks for a long term investor. Several reasons that can be attributed are: 1. The declining price of commercial banks’ stocks: With the increasing number of listed shares through right and bonus of the commercial banks, the supply of the shares in this sector has increased immensely. The macroeconomic aspects of the country such as Communist government, the fiscal budget announcement and liquidity crisis in banks have decreased the demand of these shares. As a result of the mismatch between demand and supply of these shares, the prices of the shares of commercial banks have declined. If we compare the price of these stocks as of 3rd July, 2018 and 29th March, 2012 (when NEPSE index had reached least to 292), the price of most of the stocks are in the similar range. The current price of scrips such as SCB is lower than the price when NEPSE index was at 292 by Rs 636. Similarly, EBL has a difference of only Rs 2 if we compare the price on that day and today.  Similarly, stocks such as CZBIL, KBL, NABIL, SBI have a difference below 100. Besides, the average P/E ratio of commercial bank was at 35 times when the market was in Bull Run two years before with a NEPSE index of 1888. If we observe the average P/E ratio today, it is just below 15 times. This suggests the current price of commercial bank’s stocks I relatively low and P/E below 15 is a buying price for the commercial banks.   If we compare the price of stocks in commercial bank’s sectors to sectors such as insurance and microfinance, the stocks are far cheaper so, if the investors are looking for less volatile scrips, commercial banks might be their choice of investment. So, wouldn’t you take that roller coaster ride which guarantees a less speed and a cheaper price?  2. The upcoming announcement on bonus shares and cash dividend: In the months of Ashar and Shrawan, all the commercial banks publish their fourth quarter report and conduct an AGM to propose dividend to shareholders either in the form of cash or bonus. Once the announcement is made, the stock price usually increases in a skyrocketing way. Thus, investors can estimate the overall performance of commercial banks analyzing the third quarter reports. The smart players usually buy the shares at the lower price such as now and sell it off when the price increases post the announcement of dividend. But how do the smart players estimate the returns? Are they right every single time? They probably might not be right every single time but here is a glimpse of how smart players estimate the returns.  Now, here is a catch. Just because NCCB had an aggressive growth in the last year leading to a tremendous increase in EPS, does not mean investors can expect the same this year. Similarly, there are certain things that have been observed in the past such as most of the big banks with high EPS prefer to provide fewer dividends to shareholders and transfer the return in the reserve fund. So, it is not necessary that the table provides an accurate prediction but it all depends on investors as how they will analyze the numbers. Also, this year commercial banks had faced CCD ratio crunch so, EPS and net profit might not see the same impact this year. So, wouldn’t you put an extra effort to find the roller coaster ride with more fun and less risk? 3. Publication of annual reports of commercial banks: Majority of commercial banks further publish their annual reports in Asar and Shrawan. With merely 28 commercial banks, investors base their assumptions on third quarterly unaudited reports and make a prediction what net profit can be expected from each of them. Usually, the market will react according to the annual reports published or make investment decision prior to the publication of these reports. Thus, investors can buy the stocks now on the basis of third quarter reports and hold their stocks for a longer period of time. The net profit for third quarter of commercial banks are:   4. The opened gateways for commercial banks: All the commercial banks are in the same range of Rs 8 arba. The segment of customers is the same for all commercial banks. So, the winners will be those who will be able to cater the new segment and find new avenues of customers. NRB has directed commercial banks for foreign loans. Thus, the concentration of investors should be on those commercial banks which can bring foreign loans being cost efficient. Similarly, the banks which can invest in highly productive sectors rather than less productive sectors should be on the priority list. Thus, long term investors seeking to invest in commercial banks should be up to date with the MOA signed by commercial banks with the foreign banks and other agriculture and manufacturing sectors. The commercial banks are further directed to open branches in inaccessible rural places. Thus, the banks that expand their outreach among rural population will be able to expand their loan and deposit portfolio. Further, with the certificate collateralized loan policy, banks than concentrate to motivate entrepreneurship will be seen to be the winner in the upcoming years. What a roller coaster ride it has been to investors of the commercial banks! Ever wondered how your first roller coaster ride experience in the amusement park was like? Just like the coaster ride comes with your heart pounding, a lot of screaming and fear of losing your life, the recent years have been full of anticipations, excitement and fear of loss to the commercial banks’ shareholders. Then, right when you are getting used to the roller coaster ride, the time is up and all the excitement is gone. The present context for the investors of commercial bank is similar. All these mixed emotions will probably come to an end as most of the banks have now met their paid up capital plan. The exact time to put on the safety belts and take this roller coaster ride was back when investors came across the NRB’s directive to meet a paid up capital of Rs 8 arba. But, what about the time to experience the thrill? The experience of thrill came with the announcement of capital plan of these “A” graded commercial banks. Every single time the announcement of bonus share was done, investors got an opportunity to speculate.  For instance, news of bonus share would hike the price due to the increase in demand and right there was the thrill- the thrill to grab the profit. Remember, how the market reacted to Standard Chartered’s 100% bonus share and how smart players speculated so well? But there were also the time when we rechecked if our safety belt was locked properly just as we do during a roller coaster ride. For instance, we looked for the merger and acquisition news and sold our shares if we got a clue that our trading would be halted for a long period of time. Remember, The MEGA’s mega mysterious merger with Tourism Development Bank which took a year to be resolved?    However, as you read these above paragraphs, did you feel you have missed so many opportunities to earn? It’s just that you don’t belong to the group of friends who enjoy the thrill, the excitement and the fear. You are just one of those friends who stay down waiting for your friends to complete the roller coaster ride so that you can go and join some other games that are less risky. Meaning: you just did not wanted to be a part of the speculation of commercial banks scrips and stood buying and selling nothing. Well, this exact time is for you- the long term investors.  If you are the investor looking forward for less risk and a maximized value of wealth after a certain years,  then this might be exactly the best time to enter the market. For some of you with a long term vision, your ride is just about to begin! Commercial banks hold the highest portion of market capitalization in the Nepalese secondary market when compared to other eight sectors. Commercial banks, as defined, are the A class financial institutes of the country. These banks are relied upon by other smaller banks and financial institutes for several motives. Nepal Rastra Bank usually prioritizes its effort to facilitate the development of these commercial banks. As of today, the stocks of commercial banks are considered to be better than the other sectorial stocks for a long term investor. Several reasons that can be attributed are: 1. The declining price of commercial banks’ stocks: With the increasing number of listed shares through right and bonus of the commercial banks, the supply of the shares in this sector has increased immensely. The macroeconomic aspects of the country such as Communist government, the fiscal budget announcement and liquidity crisis in banks have decreased the demand of these shares. As a result of the mismatch between demand and supply of these shares, the prices of the shares of commercial banks have declined. If we compare the price of these stocks as of 3rd July, 2018 and 29th March, 2012 (when NEPSE index had reached least to 292), the price of most of the stocks are in the similar range. The current price of scrips such as SCB is lower than the price when NEPSE index was at 292 by Rs 636. Similarly, EBL has a difference of only Rs 2 if we compare the price on that day and today.  Similarly, stocks such as CZBIL, KBL, NABIL, SBI have a difference below 100. Besides, the average P/E ratio of commercial bank was at 35 times when the market was in Bull Run two years before with a NEPSE index of 1888. If we observe the average P/E ratio today, it is just below 15 times. This suggests the current price of commercial bank’s stocks I relatively low and P/E below 15 is a buying price for the commercial banks.   If we compare the price of stocks in commercial bank’s sectors to sectors such as insurance and microfinance, the stocks are far cheaper so, if the investors are looking for less volatile scrips, commercial banks might be their choice of investment. So, wouldn’t you take that roller coaster ride which guarantees a less speed and a cheaper price?  2. The upcoming announcement on bonus shares and cash dividend: In the months of Ashar and Shrawan, all the commercial banks publish their fourth quarter report and conduct an AGM to propose dividend to shareholders either in the form of cash or bonus. Once the announcement is made, the stock price usually increases in a skyrocketing way. Thus, investors can estimate the overall performance of commercial banks analyzing the third quarter reports. The smart players usually buy the shares at the lower price such as now and sell it off when the price increases post the announcement of dividend. But how do the smart players estimate the returns? Are they right every single time? They probably might not be right every single time but here is a glimpse of how smart players estimate the returns.  Now, here is a catch. Just because NCCB had an aggressive growth in the last year leading to a tremendous increase in EPS, does not mean investors can expect the same this year. Similarly, there are certain things that have been observed in the past such as most of the big banks with high EPS prefer to provide fewer dividends to shareholders and transfer the return in the reserve fund. So, it is not necessary that the table provides an accurate prediction but it all depends on investors as how they will analyze the numbers. Also, this year commercial banks had faced CCD ratio crunch so, EPS and net profit might not see the same impact this year. So, wouldn’t you put an extra effort to find the roller coaster ride with more fun and less risk? 3. Publication of annual reports of commercial banks: Majority of commercial banks further publish their annual reports in Asar and Shrawan. With merely 28 commercial banks, investors base their assumptions on third quarterly unaudited reports and make a prediction what net profit can be expected from each of them. Usually, the market will react according to the annual reports published or make investment decision prior to the publication of these reports. Thus, investors can buy the stocks now on the basis of third quarter reports and hold their stocks for a longer period of time. The net profit for third quarter of commercial banks are:   4. The opened gateways for commercial banks: All the commercial banks are in the same range of Rs 8 arba. The segment of customers is the same for all commercial banks. So, the winners will be those who will be able to cater the new segment and find new avenues of customers. NRB has directed commercial banks for foreign loans. Thus, the concentration of investors should be on those commercial banks which can bring foreign loans being cost efficient. Similarly, the banks which can invest in highly productive sectors rather than less productive sectors should be on the priority list. Thus, long term investors seeking to invest in commercial banks should be up to date with the MOA signed by commercial banks with the foreign banks and other agriculture and manufacturing sectors. The commercial banks are further directed to open branches in inaccessible rural places. Thus, the banks that expand their outreach among rural population will be able to expand their loan and deposit portfolio. Further, with the certificate collateralized loan policy, banks than concentrate to motivate entrepreneurship will be seen to be the winner in the upcoming years. What a roller coaster ride it has been to investors of the commercial banks! Ever wondered how your first roller coaster ride experience in the amusement park was like? Just like the coaster ride comes with your heart pounding, a lot of screaming and fear of losing your life, the recent years have been full of anticipations, excitement and fear of loss to the commercial banks’ shareholders. Then, right when you are getting used to the roller coaster ride, the time is up and all the excitement is gone. The present context for the investors of commercial bank is similar. All these mixed emotions will probably come to an end as most of the banks have now met their paid up capital plan. The exact time to put on the safety belts and take this roller coaster ride was back when investors came across the NRB’s directive to meet a paid up capital of Rs 8 arba. But, what about the time to experience the thrill? The experience of thrill came with the announcement of capital plan of these “A” graded commercial banks. Every single time the announcement of bonus share was done, investors got an opportunity to speculate.  For instance, news of bonus share would hike the price due to the increase in demand and right there was the thrill- the thrill to grab the profit. Remember, how the market reacted to Standard Chartered’s 100% bonus share and how smart players speculated so well? But there were also the time when we rechecked if our safety belt was locked properly just as we do during a roller coaster ride. For instance, we looked for the merger and acquisition news and sold our shares if we got a clue that our trading would be halted for a long period of time. Remember, The MEGA’s mega mysterious merger with Tourism Development Bank which took a year to be resolved?    However, as you read these above paragraphs, did you feel you have missed so many opportunities to earn? It’s just that you don’t belong to the group of friends who enjoy the thrill, the excitement and the fear. You are just one of those friends who stay down waiting for your friends to complete the roller coaster ride so that you can go and join some other games that are less risky. Meaning: you just did not wanted to be a part of the speculation of commercial banks scrips and stood buying and selling nothing. Well, this exact time is for you- the long term investors.  If you are the investor looking forward for less risk and a maximized value of wealth after a certain years,  then this might be exactly the best time to enter the market. For some of you with a long term vision, your ride is just about to begin! Commercial banks hold the highest portion of market capitalization in the Nepalese secondary market when compared to other eight sectors. Commercial banks, as defined, are the A class financial institutes of the country. These banks are relied upon by other smaller banks and financial institutes for several motives. Nepal Rastra Bank usually prioritizes its effort to facilitate the development of these commercial banks. As of today, the stocks of commercial banks are considered to be better than the other sectorial stocks for a long term investor. Several reasons that can be attributed are: 1. The declining price of commercial banks’ stocks: With the increasing number of listed shares through right and bonus of the commercial banks, the supply of the shares in this sector has increased immensely. The macroeconomic aspects of the country such as Communist government, the fiscal budget announcement and liquidity crisis in banks have decreased the demand of these shares. As a result of the mismatch between demand and supply of these shares, the prices of the shares of commercial banks have declined. If we compare the price of these stocks as of 3rd July, 2018 and 29th March, 2012 (when NEPSE index had reached least to 292), the price of most of the stocks are in the similar range. The current price of scrips such as SCB is lower than the price when NEPSE index was at 292 by Rs 636. Similarly, EBL has a difference of only Rs 2 if we compare the price on that day and today.  Similarly, stocks such as CZBIL, KBL, NABIL, SBI have a difference below 100. Besides, the average P/E ratio of commercial bank was at 35 times when the market was in Bull Run two years before with a NEPSE index of 1888. If we observe the average P/E ratio today, it is just below 15 times. This suggests the current price of commercial bank’s stocks I relatively low and P/E below 15 is a buying price for the commercial banks.   If we compare the price of stocks in commercial bank’s sectors to sectors such as insurance and microfinance, the stocks are far cheaper so, if the investors are looking for less volatile scrips, commercial banks might be their choice of investment. So, wouldn’t you take that roller coaster ride which guarantees a less speed and a cheaper price?  2. The upcoming announcement on bonus shares and cash dividend: In the months of Ashar and Shrawan, all the commercial banks publish their fourth quarter report and conduct an AGM to propose dividend to shareholders either in the form of cash or bonus. Once the announcement is made, the stock price usually increases in a skyrocketing way. Thus, investors can estimate the overall performance of commercial banks analyzing the third quarter reports. The smart players usually buy the shares at the lower price such as now and sell it off when the price increases post the announcement of dividend. But how do the smart players estimate the returns? Are they right every single time? They probably might not be right every single time but here is a glimpse of how smart players estimate the returns.  Now, here is a catch. Just because NCCB had an aggressive growth in the last year leading to a tremendous increase in EPS, does not mean investors can expect the same this year. Similarly, there are certain things that have been observed in the past such as most of the big banks with high EPS prefer to provide fewer dividends to shareholders and transfer the return in the reserve fund. So, it is not necessary that the table provides an accurate prediction but it all depends on investors as how they will analyze the numbers. Also, this year commercial banks had faced CCD ratio crunch so, EPS and net profit might not see the same impact this year. So, wouldn’t you put an extra effort to find the roller coaster ride with more fun and less risk? 3. Publication of annual reports of commercial banks: Majority of commercial banks further publish their annual reports in Asar and Shrawan. With merely 28 commercial banks, investors base their assumptions on third quarterly unaudited reports and make a prediction what net profit can be expected from each of them. Usually, the market will react according to the annual reports published or make investment decision prior to the publication of these reports. Thus, investors can buy the stocks now on the basis of third quarter reports and hold their stocks for a longer period of time. The net profit for third quarter of commercial banks are:   4. The opened gateways for commercial banks: All the commercial banks are in the same range of Rs 8 arba. The segment of customers is the same for all commercial banks. So, the winners will be those who will be able to cater the new segment and find new avenues of customers. NRB has directed commercial banks for foreign loans. Thus, the concentration of investors should be on those commercial banks which can bring foreign loans being cost efficient. Similarly, the banks which can invest in highly productive sectors rather than less productive sectors should be on the priority list. Thus, long term investors seeking to invest in commercial banks should be up to date with the MOA signed by commercial banks with the foreign banks and other agriculture and manufacturing sectors. The commercial banks are further directed to open branches in inaccessible rural places. Thus, the banks that expand their outreach among rural population will be able to expand their loan and deposit portfolio. Further, with the certificate collateralized loan policy, banks than concentrate to motivate entrepreneurship will be seen to be the winner in the upcoming years. "
2018-07-04,Nabil Science & Technology Awards to four researchers,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-science-technology-awards-to-four-researchers,
2018-06-22,Nabil Bank finally appoints Anil Keshari Shah as new CEO after 8 years,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-finally-appoints-anil-keshari-shah-as-new-ceo-after-8-years,
2018-05-23,Even the most profitable Bank can take away your hard earned money in Nepal Stock Market. Here is the Proof.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/even-the-most-profitable-bank-can-take-away-your-hard-earned-money-in-nepal-stock-market-here-is-the-proof,
2018-05-22,Comparative analysis of commercial banks based on profitability ratios generally overlooked; Find out the ratios less popular but equally important,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/comparative-analysis-of-commercial-banks-based-on-profitability-ratios-generally-overlooked-find-out-the-ratios-less-popular-but-equally-important,
2018-05-16,Nabil Bank adds 5 new branches in its network,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-adds-5-new-branches-in-its-network,
2018-05-13,What does Warren Buffet’s technique say about investment in the scrips of Nepalese commercial banks?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/what-does-warren-buffets-technique-say-about-investment-in-the-scrips-of-nepalese-commercial-banks,"  Warren Buffet has always been in a limelight for his growth value strategy in investment decision making. This strategy did not turn Buffet into a millionaire overnight; instead, it came with patience and persistence. Buffet’s strategy has been advocated by many analysts in the international market. Buffet’s investment strategies come with a number of financial tools. This article considered implying one of these tools in Nepalese secondary markets with respect to scrips of commercial banks. Buffet’s gurus for investment success was his father; Howard H. Buffet, his first wife; Susan Buffet and most importantly, his professor; Benjamin Graham. Thus, in his for investment job, working for his guru; Benjamin Graham, Buffet learned a basic valuation technique. This technique considers two components while making a purchase decision in investment:  Price to earning is a common financial tool that shows how much an investor is willing to pay for a return of Re 1. It is the ratio of current market price and earning per share of a company. Price to book value is the measure of current market price to the book value of a company. This means it is the price an investor pays for Re 1 of the book value in business. Here is an example: If Mr. Ss buys scrip of a commercial bank with P/BV of 20, it simply means that SS pays Rs 20 for every Rupee he would get back if the stock was liquidated right now. In this reference, please remember, low P/BV means high safety. A stock is regarded to have a low P/BV if it measures below 1.5. High P/BV means low safety. A stock is regarded to have a high P/BV if it measures above 1.5. Now, what did Buffet do with these two indicators P/E and P/BV? Warren Buffet simply took a product of the two indicators: P/E and P/BV. If the product of P/E and P/BV is more than 22.5, it implies that the stock might be overvalued. On the contrary, if the product of P/E and P/BV is less than 22.5, it implies that the stock might be undervalued. These are exactly the types of stocks that Buffet eyed out for. The undervalued stocks have a low P/E meaning higher return whereas the lower P/BV meaning higher safety. What do Nepalese commercial banks indicate?  The market price is the LTP of 10th May, 2018; Thursday. Surprisingly, the Buffet’s technique provides a different answer for Nepalese commercial banks. The major points are: What comes into play while using PE*BPV technique? Buffet used this particular technique assuming that the market will be closed for next five years. That means investors who opt for this method of valuation should discard all the panics that come with bearish trend. Instead, they should focus on a result after few years. The PE*BPV technique used by Buffet further considers four rules of investment decision as listed below: Rule 1: A stock must be stable and understandable Rule 2: A stock must have long run prospects Rule 3: A stock must be well managed by observant leaders Rule 4: A stock must be undervalued What are your views on the Buffet’s technique? Do you follow Warren Buffet’s principles while you invest? Do you think it can be implied in the Nepalese secondary market? Which techniques do you use for your investment analysis?    (Disclaimer:  Any kind of information that is provided in the article should not be used as a sole advice or recommendation by investors in order to design their investment portfolio. So, before taking steps for any kind of the information, the investors are required to base their judgment on their own financial analysis, appropriateness of the information and seek independent financial advice. The information of the company has been taken from the authorized sources such as website of the company, NEPSE, financial reports and press releases of the companies so, any changes not updated in these may differ in the analysis.)   Warren Buffet has always been in a limelight for his growth value strategy in investment decision making. This strategy did not turn Buffet into a millionaire overnight; instead, it came with patience and persistence. Buffet’s strategy has been advocated by many analysts in the international market. Buffet’s investment strategies come with a number of financial tools. This article considered implying one of these tools in Nepalese secondary markets with respect to scrips of commercial banks. Buffet’s gurus for investment success was his father; Howard H. Buffet, his first wife; Susan Buffet and most importantly, his professor; Benjamin Graham. Thus, in his for investment job, working for his guru; Benjamin Graham, Buffet learned a basic valuation technique. This technique considers two components while making a purchase decision in investment:  Price to earning is a common financial tool that shows how much an investor is willing to pay for a return of Re 1. It is the ratio of current market price and earning per share of a company. Price to book value is the measure of current market price to the book value of a company. This means it is the price an investor pays for Re 1 of the book value in business. Here is an example: If Mr. Ss buys scrip of a commercial bank with P/BV of 20, it simply means that SS pays Rs 20 for every Rupee he would get back if the stock was liquidated right now. In this reference, please remember, low P/BV means high safety. A stock is regarded to have a low P/BV if it measures below 1.5. High P/BV means low safety. A stock is regarded to have a high P/BV if it measures above 1.5. Now, what did Buffet do with these two indicators P/E and P/BV? Warren Buffet simply took a product of the two indicators: P/E and P/BV. If the product of P/E and P/BV is more than 22.5, it implies that the stock might be overvalued. On the contrary, if the product of P/E and P/BV is less than 22.5, it implies that the stock might be undervalued. These are exactly the types of stocks that Buffet eyed out for. The undervalued stocks have a low P/E meaning higher return whereas the lower P/BV meaning higher safety. What do Nepalese commercial banks indicate?  The market price is the LTP of 10th May, 2018; Thursday. Surprisingly, the Buffet’s technique provides a different answer for Nepalese commercial banks. The major points are: What comes into play while using PE*BPV technique? Buffet used this particular technique assuming that the market will be closed for next five years. That means investors who opt for this method of valuation should discard all the panics that come with bearish trend. Instead, they should focus on a result after few years. The PE*BPV technique used by Buffet further considers four rules of investment decision as listed below: Rule 1: A stock must be stable and understandable Rule 2: A stock must have long run prospects Rule 3: A stock must be well managed by observant leaders Rule 4: A stock must be undervalued What are your views on the Buffet’s technique? Do you follow Warren Buffet’s principles while you invest? Do you think it can be implied in the Nepalese secondary market? Which techniques do you use for your investment analysis?    (Disclaimer:  Any kind of information that is provided in the article should not be used as a sole advice or recommendation by investors in order to design their investment portfolio. So, before taking steps for any kind of the information, the investors are required to base their judgment on their own financial analysis, appropriateness of the information and seek independent financial advice. The information of the company has been taken from the authorized sources such as website of the company, NEPSE, financial reports and press releases of the companies so, any changes not updated in these may differ in the analysis.)   Warren Buffet has always been in a limelight for his growth value strategy in investment decision making. This strategy did not turn Buffet into a millionaire overnight; instead, it came with patience and persistence. Buffet’s strategy has been advocated by many analysts in the international market. Buffet’s investment strategies come with a number of financial tools. This article considered implying one of these tools in Nepalese secondary markets with respect to scrips of commercial banks. Buffet’s gurus for investment success was his father; Howard H. Buffet, his first wife; Susan Buffet and most importantly, his professor; Benjamin Graham. Thus, in his for investment job, working for his guru; Benjamin Graham, Buffet learned a basic valuation technique. This technique considers two components while making a purchase decision in investment:  Price to earning is a common financial tool that shows how much an investor is willing to pay for a return of Re 1. It is the ratio of current market price and earning per share of a company. Price to book value is the measure of current market price to the book value of a company. This means it is the price an investor pays for Re 1 of the book value in business. Here is an example: If Mr. Ss buys scrip of a commercial bank with P/BV of 20, it simply means that SS pays Rs 20 for every Rupee he would get back if the stock was liquidated right now. In this reference, please remember, low P/BV means high safety. A stock is regarded to have a low P/BV if it measures below 1.5. High P/BV means low safety. A stock is regarded to have a high P/BV if it measures above 1.5. Now, what did Buffet do with these two indicators P/E and P/BV? Warren Buffet simply took a product of the two indicators: P/E and P/BV. If the product of P/E and P/BV is more than 22.5, it implies that the stock might be overvalued. On the contrary, if the product of P/E and P/BV is less than 22.5, it implies that the stock might be undervalued. These are exactly the types of stocks that Buffet eyed out for. The undervalued stocks have a low P/E meaning higher return whereas the lower P/BV meaning higher safety. What do Nepalese commercial banks indicate?  The market price is the LTP of 10th May, 2018; Thursday. Surprisingly, the Buffet’s technique provides a different answer for Nepalese commercial banks. The major points are: What comes into play while using PE*BPV technique? Buffet used this particular technique assuming that the market will be closed for next five years. That means investors who opt for this method of valuation should discard all the panics that come with bearish trend. Instead, they should focus on a result after few years. The PE*BPV technique used by Buffet further considers four rules of investment decision as listed below: Rule 1: A stock must be stable and understandable Rule 2: A stock must have long run prospects Rule 3: A stock must be well managed by observant leaders Rule 4: A stock must be undervalued What are your views on the Buffet’s technique? Do you follow Warren Buffet’s principles while you invest? Do you think it can be implied in the Nepalese secondary market? Which techniques do you use for your investment analysis?    (Disclaimer:  Any kind of information that is provided in the article should not be used as a sole advice or recommendation by investors in order to design their investment portfolio. So, before taking steps for any kind of the information, the investors are required to base their judgment on their own financial analysis, appropriateness of the information and seek independent financial advice. The information of the company has been taken from the authorized sources such as website of the company, NEPSE, financial reports and press releases of the companies so, any changes not updated in these may differ in the analysis.) "
2018-05-09,"Nabil Bank Inaugurates Four new branches in Lahan, Bardibas, Hariwon and Taandi",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-inaugurates-four-new-branches-in-lahan-bardibas-hariwon-and-taandi,
2018-05-08,See the performance of commercial banks based on the indicators often ignored by investors,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/see-the-performance-of-commercial-banks-based-on-the-indicators-often-ignored-by-investors,
2018-05-07,Nabil Bank and UKAid joins hands to make investment; Bank inaugurates SME Hub for providing financial assistance to small and medium business,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-and-ukaid-joins-hands-to-make-investment-bank-inaugurates-sme-hub-for-providing-financial-assistance-to-small-and-medium-business,
2018-05-01,"See the performance of all 28 commercial banks as per their financial statement of Q3 FY2074/75; Rastriya Banijya Bank, NIB, Nabil and Nepal Bank lead on major indicators",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/see-the-performance-of-all-28-commercial-banks-as-per-their-financial-statement-of-q3-fy207475-rastriya-banijya-bank-nib-nabil-and-nepal-bank-lead-on-major-indicators,
2018-04-27,Nabil Bank registers outstanding profit in the third quarter; Bank earns 2.79 arba as per the quarterly report,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-registers-outstanding-profit-in-the-third-quarter-bank-earns-279-arba-as-per-the-quarterly-report,
2018-04-18,Nabil Foundation celebrates New Year with Cerebral Palsy Nepal,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-foundation-celebrates-new-year-with-cerebral-palsy-nepal,
2018-04-15,The falling market and your concern towards commercial banks: Eyeing out for high growth and undervalued commercial banks in this bearish trend?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/the-falling-market-and-your-concern-towards-commercial-banks-eyeing-out-for-high-growth-and-undervalued-commercial-banks-in-this-bearish-trend,"The best tools that business schools and stock market pioneers often teach students and investors for evaluating the status of their stocks are EPS and P/E ratio. Every next investor in the secondary market has heard and used these tools as if these tools would write a billionaire fate. There is no harm in using EPS and P/E ratio because these tools provide an insight on the earning capacity and valuation of a company. But, there is more to lose when investors rely only on these two basic tools.  EPS and P/E ratio provide investors with the financial status of a company only at one point of time. For instance, EPS of Rs 20 tells us that the company will provide an earning of Rs 20 to investors if invested at that point of time. However, when we are investing in certain stocks, it is more important to know how the company has been doing overtime. For this, we can use two different tools as the magic wand for a better portfolio: PEG ratio and CAGR. The purpose of this article is to analyze which commercial banks have grown throughout the years and which of them are cheaper with the use of PEG Ratio and CAGR. Brief description on CAGR: Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) refers to the growth of a company over multiple periods of time. It is the measure of what percentage a company has grown from an initial investment to the ending investment value if the investment has compounded over time. Don’t worry if the description seems a bit fuzzy. The example will help you get a clearer view. For example, in 2069/70, you invested in ABC Company with NRs 1, 00,000. As of 2073/74, the investment stood at NRs 5, 00,000. Here, Initial investment of ABC is NRs 1, 00,000 and ending value of investment is NRs 5,00,000. Therefore, CAGR of ABC stands at 49.53%. This means that your investment in ABC has grown by 49.53% overtime. CAGR is given by the formula: CAGR = {(Ending value of investment/Initial value of investment)^ 1/n} -1 Where, n = no. of periods A higher CAGR represents that the company has been growing throughout the years and thus, hold a potentiality to grow in the near future. A lower CAGR, on the contrary suggests that the company is not attaining a significant growth. What does the CAGR of commercial banks in Nepal denotes? The CAGR evaluation can be done by classifying the existing commercial banks into four categories on the basis of their market price: i) Strong and High Priced Banks, ii) Mid-Range and Mid-Priced Banks, iii) Low Range and Low Priced Banks & iv) Banks with High NPA.  Strong and High Priced banks: The strong and high priced banks are those banks which are often chosen by the investors to form up their portfolio. These banks include NBL, NIB, HBL, SBI, EBL, NABIL, ADBL and SCB. These banks usually have higher market price compared to other banks. When we dig into CAGR of these banks, all the commercial banks except Nepal Bank Limited have a lower growth rate. Nepal Bank Limited has the highest four years CAGR of 67.14%. Although, NBL has the highest growth rate, its CAGR decreased from 84.53% to 67.12%. Besides NBL, all other commercial banks have a far lower CAGR. The CAGR of few high priced banks such as NIB, SBI and NABIL has been decreasing since 2069/70. The low CAGR of most of the high priced banks implies that these banks might be at the saturation point.  Mid-Range and Mid-Priced Banks: The mid-priced banks include MBL, NMB, SANIMA, GBIME, SRBL, SBL, PCBL, NBB, BOKL, LBL, KBL and NICA. These banks have the market price range which is lower than the strong and high priced banks. On the irony, all of the mid-range priced banks have a higher CAGR than the high priced banks (except NBL). Among the mid-priced banks, Machhapuchchhre Bank Limited has the highest CAGR of 64.82%. Further, the bank has shown tremendous growth with 2 years CAGR at 43.80% and 3 years CAGR at 47.75%. Although NMB Bank and SANIMA Bank have a decreasing CAGR, these two banks stand in the second and third position with CAGR of 39.08% and 37.64% respctively. The take away from this analysis is that the mid-priced banks are growing at a better rate than most of the high priced banks.  Low Range and Low Priced Banks: Among the low range and low priced commercial banks, Century Commercial Bank Limited is performing very well with a 4 years CAGR at 46.23%. The other low ranged commercial banks such as Janata Nepal Bank and Mega Bank have a CAGR at 33.86% and 32.80% respectively.  Banks with High NPA: These are the banks with highest level of Non-Performing Assets. Provided that, these stocks are riskier investment, it might not be rationale to invest in these banks at the moment. However, a considerate improvement in their performance of these banks will always encourage investors to invest in them. Brief description of PEG Ratio: P/E ratio is a very common term for readers which portray Price to Earnings ratio. However, a PEG ratio refers to Price to Earning to Growth ratio. PEG ratio is the determination of a company’s stock value keeping in account the company’s earnings growth. PEG ratio is derived by dividing the growth rate of its earning for a specified period of time. A lower PEG ratio is usually considered desirable as a general rule of thumb. However, the degree to which a PEG ratio is over or under valued usually depends upon the industry and the input variables used. A PEG Ratio is believed to provide a more complete picture than the P/E ratio. Stocks with PEG ratios higher than 1 are generally considered unfavorable, suggesting a stock is overvalued. Conversely, ratios lower than 1 are considered better, indicating a stock is undervalued. For instance, the P/E ratio of ABC Company is around 25 times. The earnings growth potentiality of the same company is 15%. What would the PEG ratio of the company be? PEG Ratio = P/E ratio / Earning growth rate                    = 25/ 15%                    =1.67%   What does the PEG Ratio of commercial banks in Nepal denotes?             Among the list of commercial banks, the bank with the highest CAGR is leading even in terms of lowest PEG ratio. This implies that Nepal Bank Limited is definitely a good purchase for the investors as it has a PEG ratio of only 0.11. Among the high priced banks, despite having the lowest CAGR in 2 years, 3 years and 4 years, PEG ratio of Standard Chartered Bank is seen the highest. An investor can draw an implication that despite the low growth rate, the stocks of SCB are being highly purchased by the investors making the shares overvalued. All the high priced commercial banks except NBL are overpriced with their PEG ratio above 1.  Among the mid-priced banks, the PEG ratio demonstrates that all the commercial banks except NIC Asia are undervalued. The undervalued stocks are MBL, NMB, GBIME, SANIMA, SBL, SRBL, PCBL, BOKL, KBL, LBL and NBB. These undervalued stocks further have a lower PEG ratio compared to the high priced banks (except NBL). It shows that these banks are far cheaper than the higher priced banks. MBL, NMB and GBIME have the top three least PEG ratio of 0.29. 0.34 and 0.43 respectively. SANIMA has also relatively lower PEG ratio of 0.47. These four banks also had higher CAGR meaning that even with tremendous growth; these companies have maintained a lower price in the secondary market. Hence, MBL, NMB, SANIMA and GBIME can be the hot cakes in the near future if they keep on maintaining their growth.   Among the low priced banks, CCBL has the least PEG ratio, however, it’s PEG ratio is higher than MBL, NMB and all the high priced commercial banks. The PEG ratio of CCBL stands at 0.43. Finally, among the banks with high NPA, PRUV has the least PEG ratio (0.27) but provided its NPA, it is considered better not to invest in the stocks.  To sum up, NBL among the high priced banks and MBL among the mid-priced banks can be seen as the growing and comparatively cheaper stock among all the stocks. However, caution to be made as no financial tools and ratios are free from limitations. CAGR and PEG ratio can give a more precise analysis of these commercial banks but CAGR assumes historical growth and it is of no guarantee that the stocks that had previously done well will do the same in the future. PEG ratio further can be flawed if a long term earning growth is not considered while calculating the ratio. Despite the limitations, these two tools used by international finance experts can be worth the try if used thoughtfully. Dear readers, what is your opinion about these two tools? Are you optimistic about this bearish trend? Do you prefer buying commercial bank’s stocks in this falling market? Do you think the stocks you hold will grow in the near future? Please do write down to us in the comment section below. (Disclaimer:  Any kind of information that is provided in the article should not be used as a sole advice or recommendation by investors in order to design their investment portfolio. So, before taking steps for any kind of the information, the investors are required to base their judgment on their own financial analysis, appropriateness of the information and seek independent financial advice. The information of the company has been taken from the authorized sources such as website of the company, NEPSE, financial reports and press releases of the companies so, any changes not updated in these may differ in the analysis.)  The best tools that business schools and stock market pioneers often teach students and investors for evaluating the status of their stocks are EPS and P/E ratio. Every next investor in the secondary market has heard and used these tools as if these tools would write a billionaire fate. There is no harm in using EPS and P/E ratio because these tools provide an insight on the earning capacity and valuation of a company. But, there is more to lose when investors rely only on these two basic tools.  EPS and P/E ratio provide investors with the financial status of a company only at one point of time. For instance, EPS of Rs 20 tells us that the company will provide an earning of Rs 20 to investors if invested at that point of time. However, when we are investing in certain stocks, it is more important to know how the company has been doing overtime. For this, we can use two different tools as the magic wand for a better portfolio: PEG ratio and CAGR. The purpose of this article is to analyze which commercial banks have grown throughout the years and which of them are cheaper with the use of PEG Ratio and CAGR. Brief description on CAGR: Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) refers to the growth of a company over multiple periods of time. It is the measure of what percentage a company has grown from an initial investment to the ending investment value if the investment has compounded over time. Don’t worry if the description seems a bit fuzzy. The example will help you get a clearer view. For example, in 2069/70, you invested in ABC Company with NRs 1, 00,000. As of 2073/74, the investment stood at NRs 5, 00,000. Here, Initial investment of ABC is NRs 1, 00,000 and ending value of investment is NRs 5,00,000. Therefore, CAGR of ABC stands at 49.53%. This means that your investment in ABC has grown by 49.53% overtime. CAGR is given by the formula: CAGR = {(Ending value of investment/Initial value of investment)^ 1/n} -1 Where, n = no. of periods A higher CAGR represents that the company has been growing throughout the years and thus, hold a potentiality to grow in the near future. A lower CAGR, on the contrary suggests that the company is not attaining a significant growth. What does the CAGR of commercial banks in Nepal denotes? The CAGR evaluation can be done by classifying the existing commercial banks into four categories on the basis of their market price: i) Strong and High Priced Banks, ii) Mid-Range and Mid-Priced Banks, iii) Low Range and Low Priced Banks & iv) Banks with High NPA.  Strong and High Priced banks: The strong and high priced banks are those banks which are often chosen by the investors to form up their portfolio. These banks include NBL, NIB, HBL, SBI, EBL, NABIL, ADBL and SCB. These banks usually have higher market price compared to other banks. When we dig into CAGR of these banks, all the commercial banks except Nepal Bank Limited have a lower growth rate. Nepal Bank Limited has the highest four years CAGR of 67.14%. Although, NBL has the highest growth rate, its CAGR decreased from 84.53% to 67.12%. Besides NBL, all other commercial banks have a far lower CAGR. The CAGR of few high priced banks such as NIB, SBI and NABIL has been decreasing since 2069/70. The low CAGR of most of the high priced banks implies that these banks might be at the saturation point.  Mid-Range and Mid-Priced Banks: The mid-priced banks include MBL, NMB, SANIMA, GBIME, SRBL, SBL, PCBL, NBB, BOKL, LBL, KBL and NICA. These banks have the market price range which is lower than the strong and high priced banks. On the irony, all of the mid-range priced banks have a higher CAGR than the high priced banks (except NBL). Among the mid-priced banks, Machhapuchchhre Bank Limited has the highest CAGR of 64.82%. Further, the bank has shown tremendous growth with 2 years CAGR at 43.80% and 3 years CAGR at 47.75%. Although NMB Bank and SANIMA Bank have a decreasing CAGR, these two banks stand in the second and third position with CAGR of 39.08% and 37.64% respctively. The take away from this analysis is that the mid-priced banks are growing at a better rate than most of the high priced banks.  Low Range and Low Priced Banks: Among the low range and low priced commercial banks, Century Commercial Bank Limited is performing very well with a 4 years CAGR at 46.23%. The other low ranged commercial banks such as Janata Nepal Bank and Mega Bank have a CAGR at 33.86% and 32.80% respectively.  Banks with High NPA: These are the banks with highest level of Non-Performing Assets. Provided that, these stocks are riskier investment, it might not be rationale to invest in these banks at the moment. However, a considerate improvement in their performance of these banks will always encourage investors to invest in them. Brief description of PEG Ratio: P/E ratio is a very common term for readers which portray Price to Earnings ratio. However, a PEG ratio refers to Price to Earning to Growth ratio. PEG ratio is the determination of a company’s stock value keeping in account the company’s earnings growth. PEG ratio is derived by dividing the growth rate of its earning for a specified period of time. A lower PEG ratio is usually considered desirable as a general rule of thumb. However, the degree to which a PEG ratio is over or under valued usually depends upon the industry and the input variables used. A PEG Ratio is believed to provide a more complete picture than the P/E ratio. Stocks with PEG ratios higher than 1 are generally considered unfavorable, suggesting a stock is overvalued. Conversely, ratios lower than 1 are considered better, indicating a stock is undervalued. For instance, the P/E ratio of ABC Company is around 25 times. The earnings growth potentiality of the same company is 15%. What would the PEG ratio of the company be? PEG Ratio = P/E ratio / Earning growth rate                    = 25/ 15%                    =1.67%   What does the PEG Ratio of commercial banks in Nepal denotes?             Among the list of commercial banks, the bank with the highest CAGR is leading even in terms of lowest PEG ratio. This implies that Nepal Bank Limited is definitely a good purchase for the investors as it has a PEG ratio of only 0.11. Among the high priced banks, despite having the lowest CAGR in 2 years, 3 years and 4 years, PEG ratio of Standard Chartered Bank is seen the highest. An investor can draw an implication that despite the low growth rate, the stocks of SCB are being highly purchased by the investors making the shares overvalued. All the high priced commercial banks except NBL are overpriced with their PEG ratio above 1.  Among the mid-priced banks, the PEG ratio demonstrates that all the commercial banks except NIC Asia are undervalued. The undervalued stocks are MBL, NMB, GBIME, SANIMA, SBL, SRBL, PCBL, BOKL, KBL, LBL and NBB. These undervalued stocks further have a lower PEG ratio compared to the high priced banks (except NBL). It shows that these banks are far cheaper than the higher priced banks. MBL, NMB and GBIME have the top three least PEG ratio of 0.29. 0.34 and 0.43 respectively. SANIMA has also relatively lower PEG ratio of 0.47. These four banks also had higher CAGR meaning that even with tremendous growth; these companies have maintained a lower price in the secondary market. Hence, MBL, NMB, SANIMA and GBIME can be the hot cakes in the near future if they keep on maintaining their growth.   Among the low priced banks, CCBL has the least PEG ratio, however, it’s PEG ratio is higher than MBL, NMB and all the high priced commercial banks. The PEG ratio of CCBL stands at 0.43. Finally, among the banks with high NPA, PRUV has the least PEG ratio (0.27) but provided its NPA, it is considered better not to invest in the stocks.  To sum up, NBL among the high priced banks and MBL among the mid-priced banks can be seen as the growing and comparatively cheaper stock among all the stocks. However, caution to be made as no financial tools and ratios are free from limitations. CAGR and PEG ratio can give a more precise analysis of these commercial banks but CAGR assumes historical growth and it is of no guarantee that the stocks that had previously done well will do the same in the future. PEG ratio further can be flawed if a long term earning growth is not considered while calculating the ratio. Despite the limitations, these two tools used by international finance experts can be worth the try if used thoughtfully. Dear readers, what is your opinion about these two tools? Are you optimistic about this bearish trend? Do you prefer buying commercial bank’s stocks in this falling market? Do you think the stocks you hold will grow in the near future? Please do write down to us in the comment section below. (Disclaimer:  Any kind of information that is provided in the article should not be used as a sole advice or recommendation by investors in order to design their investment portfolio. So, before taking steps for any kind of the information, the investors are required to base their judgment on their own financial analysis, appropriateness of the information and seek independent financial advice. The information of the company has been taken from the authorized sources such as website of the company, NEPSE, financial reports and press releases of the companies so, any changes not updated in these may differ in the analysis.)  The best tools that business schools and stock market pioneers often teach students and investors for evaluating the status of their stocks are EPS and P/E ratio. Every next investor in the secondary market has heard and used these tools as if these tools would write a billionaire fate. There is no harm in using EPS and P/E ratio because these tools provide an insight on the earning capacity and valuation of a company. But, there is more to lose when investors rely only on these two basic tools.  EPS and P/E ratio provide investors with the financial status of a company only at one point of time. For instance, EPS of Rs 20 tells us that the company will provide an earning of Rs 20 to investors if invested at that point of time. However, when we are investing in certain stocks, it is more important to know how the company has been doing overtime. For this, we can use two different tools as the magic wand for a better portfolio: PEG ratio and CAGR. The purpose of this article is to analyze which commercial banks have grown throughout the years and which of them are cheaper with the use of PEG Ratio and CAGR. Brief description on CAGR: Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) refers to the growth of a company over multiple periods of time. It is the measure of what percentage a company has grown from an initial investment to the ending investment value if the investment has compounded over time. Don’t worry if the description seems a bit fuzzy. The example will help you get a clearer view. For example, in 2069/70, you invested in ABC Company with NRs 1, 00,000. As of 2073/74, the investment stood at NRs 5, 00,000. Here, Initial investment of ABC is NRs 1, 00,000 and ending value of investment is NRs 5,00,000. Therefore, CAGR of ABC stands at 49.53%. This means that your investment in ABC has grown by 49.53% overtime. CAGR is given by the formula: CAGR = {(Ending value of investment/Initial value of investment)^ 1/n} -1 Where, n = no. of periods A higher CAGR represents that the company has been growing throughout the years and thus, hold a potentiality to grow in the near future. A lower CAGR, on the contrary suggests that the company is not attaining a significant growth. What does the CAGR of commercial banks in Nepal denotes? The CAGR evaluation can be done by classifying the existing commercial banks into four categories on the basis of their market price: i) Strong and High Priced Banks, ii) Mid-Range and Mid-Priced Banks, iii) Low Range and Low Priced Banks & iv) Banks with High NPA.  Strong and High Priced banks: The strong and high priced banks are those banks which are often chosen by the investors to form up their portfolio. These banks include NBL, NIB, HBL, SBI, EBL, NABIL, ADBL and SCB. These banks usually have higher market price compared to other banks. When we dig into CAGR of these banks, all the commercial banks except Nepal Bank Limited have a lower growth rate. Nepal Bank Limited has the highest four years CAGR of 67.14%. Although, NBL has the highest growth rate, its CAGR decreased from 84.53% to 67.12%. Besides NBL, all other commercial banks have a far lower CAGR. The CAGR of few high priced banks such as NIB, SBI and NABIL has been decreasing since 2069/70. The low CAGR of most of the high priced banks implies that these banks might be at the saturation point.  Mid-Range and Mid-Priced Banks: The mid-priced banks include MBL, NMB, SANIMA, GBIME, SRBL, SBL, PCBL, NBB, BOKL, LBL, KBL and NICA. These banks have the market price range which is lower than the strong and high priced banks. On the irony, all of the mid-range priced banks have a higher CAGR than the high priced banks (except NBL). Among the mid-priced banks, Machhapuchchhre Bank Limited has the highest CAGR of 64.82%. Further, the bank has shown tremendous growth with 2 years CAGR at 43.80% and 3 years CAGR at 47.75%. Although NMB Bank and SANIMA Bank have a decreasing CAGR, these two banks stand in the second and third position with CAGR of 39.08% and 37.64% respctively. The take away from this analysis is that the mid-priced banks are growing at a better rate than most of the high priced banks.  Low Range and Low Priced Banks: Among the low range and low priced commercial banks, Century Commercial Bank Limited is performing very well with a 4 years CAGR at 46.23%. The other low ranged commercial banks such as Janata Nepal Bank and Mega Bank have a CAGR at 33.86% and 32.80% respectively.  Banks with High NPA: These are the banks with highest level of Non-Performing Assets. Provided that, these stocks are riskier investment, it might not be rationale to invest in these banks at the moment. However, a considerate improvement in their performance of these banks will always encourage investors to invest in them. Brief description of PEG Ratio: P/E ratio is a very common term for readers which portray Price to Earnings ratio. However, a PEG ratio refers to Price to Earning to Growth ratio. PEG ratio is the determination of a company’s stock value keeping in account the company’s earnings growth. PEG ratio is derived by dividing the growth rate of its earning for a specified period of time. A lower PEG ratio is usually considered desirable as a general rule of thumb. However, the degree to which a PEG ratio is over or under valued usually depends upon the industry and the input variables used. A PEG Ratio is believed to provide a more complete picture than the P/E ratio. Stocks with PEG ratios higher than 1 are generally considered unfavorable, suggesting a stock is overvalued. Conversely, ratios lower than 1 are considered better, indicating a stock is undervalued. For instance, the P/E ratio of ABC Company is around 25 times. The earnings growth potentiality of the same company is 15%. What would the PEG ratio of the company be? PEG Ratio = P/E ratio / Earning growth rate                    = 25/ 15%                    =1.67%   What does the PEG Ratio of commercial banks in Nepal denotes?             Among the list of commercial banks, the bank with the highest CAGR is leading even in terms of lowest PEG ratio. This implies that Nepal Bank Limited is definitely a good purchase for the investors as it has a PEG ratio of only 0.11. Among the high priced banks, despite having the lowest CAGR in 2 years, 3 years and 4 years, PEG ratio of Standard Chartered Bank is seen the highest. An investor can draw an implication that despite the low growth rate, the stocks of SCB are being highly purchased by the investors making the shares overvalued. All the high priced commercial banks except NBL are overpriced with their PEG ratio above 1.  Among the mid-priced banks, the PEG ratio demonstrates that all the commercial banks except NIC Asia are undervalued. The undervalued stocks are MBL, NMB, GBIME, SANIMA, SBL, SRBL, PCBL, BOKL, KBL, LBL and NBB. These undervalued stocks further have a lower PEG ratio compared to the high priced banks (except NBL). It shows that these banks are far cheaper than the higher priced banks. MBL, NMB and GBIME have the top three least PEG ratio of 0.29. 0.34 and 0.43 respectively. SANIMA has also relatively lower PEG ratio of 0.47. These four banks also had higher CAGR meaning that even with tremendous growth; these companies have maintained a lower price in the secondary market. Hence, MBL, NMB, SANIMA and GBIME can be the hot cakes in the near future if they keep on maintaining their growth.   Among the low priced banks, CCBL has the least PEG ratio, however, it’s PEG ratio is higher than MBL, NMB and all the high priced commercial banks. The PEG ratio of CCBL stands at 0.43. Finally, among the banks with high NPA, PRUV has the least PEG ratio (0.27) but provided its NPA, it is considered better not to invest in the stocks.  To sum up, NBL among the high priced banks and MBL among the mid-priced banks can be seen as the growing and comparatively cheaper stock among all the stocks. However, caution to be made as no financial tools and ratios are free from limitations. CAGR and PEG ratio can give a more precise analysis of these commercial banks but CAGR assumes historical growth and it is of no guarantee that the stocks that had previously done well will do the same in the future. PEG ratio further can be flawed if a long term earning growth is not considered while calculating the ratio. Despite the limitations, these two tools used by international finance experts can be worth the try if used thoughtfully. Dear readers, what is your opinion about these two tools? Are you optimistic about this bearish trend? Do you prefer buying commercial bank’s stocks in this falling market? Do you think the stocks you hold will grow in the near future? Please do write down to us in the comment section below. (Disclaimer:  Any kind of information that is provided in the article should not be used as a sole advice or recommendation by investors in order to design their investment portfolio. So, before taking steps for any kind of the information, the investors are required to base their judgment on their own financial analysis, appropriateness of the information and seek independent financial advice. The information of the company has been taken from the authorized sources such as website of the company, NEPSE, financial reports and press releases of the companies so, any changes not updated in these may differ in the analysis.)  "
2018-04-13,Betan Karnali signs agreement with Nabil and Nepal SBI; commercial banks to form consortium to extend Rs 25 arba line of credit to Surkhet base hydropower,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/betan-karnali-signs-agreement-with-nabil-and-nepal-sbi-commercial-banks-to-form-consortium-to-extend-rs-25-arba-line-of-credit-to-surkhet-base-hydropower,
2018-04-03,"If you had invested Rs 1 lakh in stocks like NTC, NABIL & Chilime 5 years ago, here’s what it’s worth now",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/if-you-had-invested-rs-1-lakh-in-stocks-like-ntc-nabil-chilime-5-years-ago-heres-what-its-worth-now,"- Suramya Khanal “The stock market is designed to transfer money from the active to the patient” – Warren Buffet It is no secret that Warren Buffet, the self-made billionaire investor, has always valued investing over the long-term. His slow and steady approach has proved to be successful in building wealth—making him one of the richest people in the world with net worth of almost $85 billion (Rs 88 kharba). One of the most popular mantras of Buffet is about giving more importance to long-term investment on growing companies, rather than focusing on trading and short-term investments. So what can we learn from the man whose personal net worth is 6 times more than NEPSE’s entire market capitalization of Rs 14.30 kharba? On several occasions, Warren Buffet has said that if one does not have the patience to hold stocks for 10 years, they shouldn’t hold it for even 10 minutes. Keeping this in mind, ShareSansar analyzed what would have happened if we had invested just Rs 1 lakh in some of the 15 popular stocks from different sectors and let it grow for 5 years. We analyzed 14 different companies (plus 1 mutual fund scheme) for this analysis, and projected the returns. Siddhartha Investment Growth Scheme-1, a mutual fund that matured in December 2017, was also analyzed to see if mutual funds could also provide good returns in Nepali share market. The below graphic shows what Rs 1 lakh invested in these 15 scrips five fiscal years ago would have grown (or shrunk) to in today’s value. For simplification, we made a few assumptions. We assumed that any cash dividends received in the five-year period (FY 2069/70 to FY 2073/74) were not reinvested, and capital gains tax was also not calculated. Since 7.50% capital gains on profit will not matter much in the long-term (due to adjustment of average base prices), this will also not offset the final worth by a big value. Amount invested for right share was also adjusted in the overall value, and any cash flow in these five years were totaled for the whole 5 years. Also, Rs 10 was taken as the per unit cost of SIGS1 since its initial offering (IPO) came in Mangsir, 2069. Finally, we have assumed the prices of 5 fiscal years ago i.e. on Asadh 31, 2069 to fully compound the dividends of all the 5 years. Companies Analyzed These 15 scrips have always been hot stocks for their sectors, including the 4 commercial banks that are considered blue-chips: Everest Bank, Nabil Bank, Standard Chartered Bank and Nepal Investment Bank. Results:
Annualized Returns: It might be surprising to see that the 4 commercial banks (NIB, NABIL, SCB and EBL) were nowhere to be found at the top, although the annualized returns they provided was not bad (14.95% to 26.38%). However, among these scrips, First Microfinance was the clear winner with almost 85% Compounded Annual Growth Rate. In the 5 fiscal years, FMDBL has provided 15% cash dividend for 2 years, 15% bonus share for 3 years, 100% right share once and 50% right share for 2 consecutive years. If one had invested Rs 1 lakh in First Microfinance 5 years ago, it would have grown to Rs 21 lakh as of today.
Oriental Hotels (the operator of Radisson Hotel Chain in Nepal), as a hotel company, had also posted a remarkable growth in this period and distributed dividends for the last 4 years, along with hotcakes such as Muktinath Bikas Bank (MNBBL) and Shikhar Insurance (SICL). Chilime Hydropower (CHCL) and Nepal Doorsanchar (NTC) stood at the bottom of the 15 reviewed scrips, with annualized returns at 13.49% and 13.63% only. Rs 1 lakh invested in Shikhar Insurance five years ago would have yielded Rs 18 lakh today (including all the money reinvested as right share). And if Rs 15 lakh was invested in these 15 companies five years ago, it would have become Rs 1crore and 17lakhs today. Takeaways: 1. Choose mutual funds over fixed deposits If one does not have time or knowledge for making personal investment decisions, they can always opt for buying mutual funds. Mutual funds invest in many companies from different sectors, are regulated, and are managed by expert fund managers and analysts. SIGS1 provided regular cash dividends during its time, with compounded annual growth of 27.90%. No fixed deposit scheme will ever come close to providing this return. 2. There's almost no correlation between company’s operations and stock performance over the short-term, but 100% correlation in long-term. Often, there does not seem to be much correlation between how the company is performing and its market performance. When the market is bearish, the prices of every companies start to fall. Using this dip to buy stocks of companies with growth potential will help reach investments goals over broader term. It pays to be patient and to own successful companies. 3. Ride the bear into the bull Ever since making a high of 1,881 points almost two years ago, market has been in a consolidation phase. Those who had invested at the peak of the bull market in Shrawan 2073 may be at a loss today, however, holding on to the stocks of growing companies will surely lead to a good return. For the last 2 years, NEPSE has been on a downward trend, leading to many moments of panic selling. This has sharply decreased the price of the companies. For example, First Microfinance (FMDBL) had reached over Rs 1600 per kitta last year (2017 April), whereas its price is Rs 500 at the moment. Shikhar Insurance (SICL) can be bought at Rs 950 today, but it had reached Rs 4,300. What we have to learn is that even when the companies have been devalued by such an extent, the number of shares one possesses has been steadily growing for the past few years. Eventually, this will outweigh all the risks of short-term trading and short-term swings. When the next bull market comes, we can offload the shares bought in bear market and get maximum returns on our investments. So, don’t feel afraid to buy undervalued companies in the bear market. The market may crash, but your share on the good company will only increase. Eventually when the bull arrives (and it will surely arrive), we can ride it. By focusing on long-term value instead of short-term emotions, by being patient when everyone is running to sell their shares, and by choosing companies with good future growth prospects, good returns can be anticipated in the next few years. This article was first published in ShareSansar on April 3, 2018. - Suramya Khanal “The stock market is designed to transfer money from the active to the patient” – Warren Buffet It is no secret that Warren Buffet, the self-made billionaire investor, has always valued investing over the long-term. His slow and steady approach has proved to be successful in building wealth—making him one of the richest people in the world with net worth of almost $85 billion (Rs 88 kharba). One of the most popular mantras of Buffet is about giving more importance to long-term investment on growing companies, rather than focusing on trading and short-term investments. So what can we learn from the man whose personal net worth is 6 times more than NEPSE’s entire market capitalization of Rs 14.30 kharba? On several occasions, Warren Buffet has said that if one does not have the patience to hold stocks for 10 years, they shouldn’t hold it for even 10 minutes. Keeping this in mind, ShareSansar analyzed what would have happened if we had invested just Rs 1 lakh in some of the 15 popular stocks from different sectors and let it grow for 5 years. We analyzed 14 different companies (plus 1 mutual fund scheme) for this analysis, and projected the returns. Siddhartha Investment Growth Scheme-1, a mutual fund that matured in December 2017, was also analyzed to see if mutual funds could also provide good returns in Nepali share market. The below graphic shows what Rs 1 lakh invested in these 15 scrips five fiscal years ago would have grown (or shrunk) to in today’s value. For simplification, we made a few assumptions. We assumed that any cash dividends received in the five-year period (FY 2069/70 to FY 2073/74) were not reinvested, and capital gains tax was also not calculated. Since 7.50% capital gains on profit will not matter much in the long-term (due to adjustment of average base prices), this will also not offset the final worth by a big value. Amount invested for right share was also adjusted in the overall value, and any cash flow in these five years were totaled for the whole 5 years. Also, Rs 10 was taken as the per unit cost of SIGS1 since its initial offering (IPO) came in Mangsir, 2069. Finally, we have assumed the prices of 5 fiscal years ago i.e. on Asadh 31, 2069 to fully compound the dividends of all the 5 years. Companies Analyzed These 15 scrips have always been hot stocks for their sectors, including the 4 commercial banks that are considered blue-chips: Everest Bank, Nabil Bank, Standard Chartered Bank and Nepal Investment Bank. Results:
Annualized Returns: It might be surprising to see that the 4 commercial banks (NIB, NABIL, SCB and EBL) were nowhere to be found at the top, although the annualized returns they provided was not bad (14.95% to 26.38%). However, among these scrips, First Microfinance was the clear winner with almost 85% Compounded Annual Growth Rate. In the 5 fiscal years, FMDBL has provided 15% cash dividend for 2 years, 15% bonus share for 3 years, 100% right share once and 50% right share for 2 consecutive years. If one had invested Rs 1 lakh in First Microfinance 5 years ago, it would have grown to Rs 21 lakh as of today.
Oriental Hotels (the operator of Radisson Hotel Chain in Nepal), as a hotel company, had also posted a remarkable growth in this period and distributed dividends for the last 4 years, along with hotcakes such as Muktinath Bikas Bank (MNBBL) and Shikhar Insurance (SICL). Chilime Hydropower (CHCL) and Nepal Doorsanchar (NTC) stood at the bottom of the 15 reviewed scrips, with annualized returns at 13.49% and 13.63% only. Rs 1 lakh invested in Shikhar Insurance five years ago would have yielded Rs 18 lakh today (including all the money reinvested as right share). And if Rs 15 lakh was invested in these 15 companies five years ago, it would have become Rs 1crore and 17lakhs today. Takeaways: 1. Choose mutual funds over fixed deposits If one does not have time or knowledge for making personal investment decisions, they can always opt for buying mutual funds. Mutual funds invest in many companies from different sectors, are regulated, and are managed by expert fund managers and analysts. SIGS1 provided regular cash dividends during its time, with compounded annual growth of 27.90%. No fixed deposit scheme will ever come close to providing this return. 2. There's almost no correlation between company’s operations and stock performance over the short-term, but 100% correlation in long-term. Often, there does not seem to be much correlation between how the company is performing and its market performance. When the market is bearish, the prices of every companies start to fall. Using this dip to buy stocks of companies with growth potential will help reach investments goals over broader term. It pays to be patient and to own successful companies. 3. Ride the bear into the bull Ever since making a high of 1,881 points almost two years ago, market has been in a consolidation phase. Those who had invested at the peak of the bull market in Shrawan 2073 may be at a loss today, however, holding on to the stocks of growing companies will surely lead to a good return. For the last 2 years, NEPSE has been on a downward trend, leading to many moments of panic selling. This has sharply decreased the price of the companies. For example, First Microfinance (FMDBL) had reached over Rs 1600 per kitta last year (2017 April), whereas its price is Rs 500 at the moment. Shikhar Insurance (SICL) can be bought at Rs 950 today, but it had reached Rs 4,300. What we have to learn is that even when the companies have been devalued by such an extent, the number of shares one possesses has been steadily growing for the past few years. Eventually, this will outweigh all the risks of short-term trading and short-term swings. When the next bull market comes, we can offload the shares bought in bear market and get maximum returns on our investments. So, don’t feel afraid to buy undervalued companies in the bear market. The market may crash, but your share on the good company will only increase. Eventually when the bull arrives (and it will surely arrive), we can ride it. By focusing on long-term value instead of short-term emotions, by being patient when everyone is running to sell their shares, and by choosing companies with good future growth prospects, good returns can be anticipated in the next few years. This article was first published in ShareSansar on April 3, 2018. - Suramya Khanal “The stock market is designed to transfer money from the active to the patient” – Warren Buffet It is no secret that Warren Buffet, the self-made billionaire investor, has always valued investing over the long-term. His slow and steady approach has proved to be successful in building wealth—making him one of the richest people in the world with net worth of almost $85 billion (Rs 88 kharba). One of the most popular mantras of Buffet is about giving more importance to long-term investment on growing companies, rather than focusing on trading and short-term investments. So what can we learn from the man whose personal net worth is 6 times more than NEPSE’s entire market capitalization of Rs 14.30 kharba? On several occasions, Warren Buffet has said that if one does not have the patience to hold stocks for 10 years, they shouldn’t hold it for even 10 minutes. Keeping this in mind, ShareSansar analyzed what would have happened if we had invested just Rs 1 lakh in some of the 15 popular stocks from different sectors and let it grow for 5 years. We analyzed 14 different companies (plus 1 mutual fund scheme) for this analysis, and projected the returns. Siddhartha Investment Growth Scheme-1, a mutual fund that matured in December 2017, was also analyzed to see if mutual funds could also provide good returns in Nepali share market. The below graphic shows what Rs 1 lakh invested in these 15 scrips five fiscal years ago would have grown (or shrunk) to in today’s value. For simplification, we made a few assumptions. We assumed that any cash dividends received in the five-year period (FY 2069/70 to FY 2073/74) were not reinvested, and capital gains tax was also not calculated. Since 7.50% capital gains on profit will not matter much in the long-term (due to adjustment of average base prices), this will also not offset the final worth by a big value. Amount invested for right share was also adjusted in the overall value, and any cash flow in these five years were totaled for the whole 5 years. Also, Rs 10 was taken as the per unit cost of SIGS1 since its initial offering (IPO) came in Mangsir, 2069. Finally, we have assumed the prices of 5 fiscal years ago i.e. on Asadh 31, 2069 to fully compound the dividends of all the 5 years. Companies Analyzed These 15 scrips have always been hot stocks for their sectors, including the 4 commercial banks that are considered blue-chips: Everest Bank, Nabil Bank, Standard Chartered Bank and Nepal Investment Bank. Results:
Annualized Returns: It might be surprising to see that the 4 commercial banks (NIB, NABIL, SCB and EBL) were nowhere to be found at the top, although the annualized returns they provided was not bad (14.95% to 26.38%). However, among these scrips, First Microfinance was the clear winner with almost 85% Compounded Annual Growth Rate. In the 5 fiscal years, FMDBL has provided 15% cash dividend for 2 years, 15% bonus share for 3 years, 100% right share once and 50% right share for 2 consecutive years. If one had invested Rs 1 lakh in First Microfinance 5 years ago, it would have grown to Rs 21 lakh as of today.
Oriental Hotels (the operator of Radisson Hotel Chain in Nepal), as a hotel company, had also posted a remarkable growth in this period and distributed dividends for the last 4 years, along with hotcakes such as Muktinath Bikas Bank (MNBBL) and Shikhar Insurance (SICL). Chilime Hydropower (CHCL) and Nepal Doorsanchar (NTC) stood at the bottom of the 15 reviewed scrips, with annualized returns at 13.49% and 13.63% only. Rs 1 lakh invested in Shikhar Insurance five years ago would have yielded Rs 18 lakh today (including all the money reinvested as right share). And if Rs 15 lakh was invested in these 15 companies five years ago, it would have become Rs 1crore and 17lakhs today. Takeaways: 1. Choose mutual funds over fixed deposits If one does not have time or knowledge for making personal investment decisions, they can always opt for buying mutual funds. Mutual funds invest in many companies from different sectors, are regulated, and are managed by expert fund managers and analysts. SIGS1 provided regular cash dividends during its time, with compounded annual growth of 27.90%. No fixed deposit scheme will ever come close to providing this return. 2. There's almost no correlation between company’s operations and stock performance over the short-term, but 100% correlation in long-term. Often, there does not seem to be much correlation between how the company is performing and its market performance. When the market is bearish, the prices of every companies start to fall. Using this dip to buy stocks of companies with growth potential will help reach investments goals over broader term. It pays to be patient and to own successful companies. 3. Ride the bear into the bull Ever since making a high of 1,881 points almost two years ago, market has been in a consolidation phase. Those who had invested at the peak of the bull market in Shrawan 2073 may be at a loss today, however, holding on to the stocks of growing companies will surely lead to a good return. For the last 2 years, NEPSE has been on a downward trend, leading to many moments of panic selling. This has sharply decreased the price of the companies. For example, First Microfinance (FMDBL) had reached over Rs 1600 per kitta last year (2017 April), whereas its price is Rs 500 at the moment. Shikhar Insurance (SICL) can be bought at Rs 950 today, but it had reached Rs 4,300. What we have to learn is that even when the companies have been devalued by such an extent, the number of shares one possesses has been steadily growing for the past few years. Eventually, this will outweigh all the risks of short-term trading and short-term swings. When the next bull market comes, we can offload the shares bought in bear market and get maximum returns on our investments. So, don’t feel afraid to buy undervalued companies in the bear market. The market may crash, but your share on the good company will only increase. Eventually when the bull arrives (and it will surely arrive), we can ride it. By focusing on long-term value instead of short-term emotions, by being patient when everyone is running to sell their shares, and by choosing companies with good future growth prospects, good returns can be anticipated in the next few years. This article was first published in ShareSansar on April 3, 2018. "
2018-03-30,"Nabil Bank announces ""Nabil Bumper Fixed Deposits-1"" deposit scheme with 11% interest rate",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-announces-nabil-bumper-fixed-deposits-1-deposit-scheme-with-11-interest-rate,
2018-03-28,History witnessed us getting up from 292 point mark; inferences can’t be made from inadequate information. Check out why?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/history-witnessed-us-getting-up-from-292-point-mark-inferences-cant-be-made-from-inadequate-information-check-out-why,
2018-03-27,Nabil Bank sponsored Nabil Balance Fund 1 to mature on Chaitra 29; units holders to get their money back proportionally,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-sponsored-nabil-balance-fund-1-to-mature-on-chaitra-29-units-holders-to-get-their-money-back-proportionally,
2018-03-25,Nabil Bank withdraws advance interest payment scheme following pressure from the Banker's Association; Calls for a meeting on Monday,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/bankers-association-asks-banks-to-withdraw-advance-interest-payment-scheme-calls-for-a-meeting-on-monday,
2018-03-25,Standard Chartered Bank again bags the top spot in CAMELS rating; 2 Government owned Banks follow banks with foreign investment,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/standard-chartered-bank-again-bags-the-top-spot-in-camels-rating-2-government-owned-banks-follow-banks-with-foreign-investment,
2018-03-22,Know which is the best buy among top blue chip commercial banks? Rating wise analysis,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/know-which-is-the-best-buy-among-top-blue-chip-commercial-banks-rating-wise-analysis,
2018-03-22,Nabil Bank’s new scheme to provide 11% interest in advance; Assumed to gather the attention of Bankers Association with the effective interest rate exceeding 12%,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-new-scheme-to-provide-11-interest-in-advance-assumed-to-gather-the-attention-of-bankers-association-with-the-effective-interest-rate-exceeding-12,
2018-02-25,"Nabil, Mega, Century and Machhapuchchhre Banks functioning without CEO; whom to blame?",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/four-major-banks-with-unfilled-top-executive-position,
2018-02-19,Nabil Bank urges investors to get CRN No.; announces free C-ASBA & DEMAT,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-urges-investors-to-get-crn-no-announces-free-c-asba-demat,
2018-02-18,Nabil Bank appoints Mr. Anil Keshari Shah as Acting CEO,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-appoints-mr-anil-keshari-shah-as-acting-ceo,
2018-02-02,Nabil Bank appoints Anil Shah as the deputy CEO; Appointment until the expiry of ‘ Cooling Period’,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-appoints-anil-shah-as-the-deputy-ceo-appointment-until-the-expiry-of-cooling-period,
2018-01-31,Nabil Bank dismisses appointment of Anil Shah as CEO citing ‘cooling period’ of 6 months,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-dismisses-appointment-of-anil-shah-as-ceo-citing-cooling-period-of-6-months,
2018-01-30,EPS of most commercial banks go down after capital hike – which commercial banks are now still profitable? (See In-Depth Analysis of all 28 Commercial Banks based on their Q2 reports of FY 2074/75 and FY 2073/74 under one table),https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/eps-of-most-commercial-banks-go-down-which-commercial-banks-are-now-still-profitable-see-in-depth-analysis-of-all-28-commercial-banks-based-on-their-q2-reports-of-fy-207475-and-fy-207374,
2018-01-29,See the net profit of 28 commercial banks; NABIL & Nepal Investment makes it to the top in the second quarter,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/see-the-net-profit-of-28-commercial-banks-nabil-nepal-investment-makes-it-to-the-top-in-the-second-quarter,
2018-01-29,Nabil Bank publishes outstanding Q2 report; stood first in terms of net profit among commercial bank; Net profit figure is Rs 1.83 arba with EPS Rs 45.70,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-publishes-q2-report-net-profit-reaches-1-8-arba-and-eps-stands-at-rs-45-70,
2018-01-09,"NEPSE lists 3.37 crore unit right shares of Excel Development Bank & bonus share of Nabil, Sanima Bank & 2 other companies",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nepse-lists-3-37-crore-unit-right-shares-of-excel-development-bank-bonus-share-of-nabil-sanima-bank-2-other-companies,
2017-12-29,Nabil Bank appoints Anil Keshary Shah as new CEO; Shah returning to Nabil after 8 years,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-appoints-anil-keshary-shah-as-new-ceo-shah-returning-to-nabil-after-8-years,
2017-12-24,Commercial Banks helping Federal System; Massive expansion in Branch Offices,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-helping-federal-system-massive-expansion-in-branch-offices,
2017-12-10,"See how much will be the EPS of EBL, NIB, NABIL & SCB after paid-up capital of Rs 8 arba? Is it worth to buy SCB in greed of 100% bonus shares?",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/see-how-much-will-be-the-eps-of-ebl-nib-nabil-scb-after-paid-up-capital-of-rs-8-arba-is-it-worth-to-buy-scb-in-greed-of-100-bonus-shares,
2017-12-05,Nabil Bank’s CEO Sashin Joshi resignation approved; Upendra Paudyal nominated as director,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-ceo-sashin-joshi-resignation-approved-upendra-paudyal-nominated-as-director,
2017-11-14,EPS of almost all commercial banks dwindle – Will it be profitable to invest in commercial banks? (See the In-Depth analysis of all 28 Commercial Banks under one table),https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/eps-of-almost-all-commercial-banks-dwindle-will-it-be-profitable-to-invest-in-commercial-banks-see-the-in-depth-analysis-of-all-28-commercial-banks-under-one-table,
2017-11-01,"See the Q1 performance of Nabil, Janata & Rastriya Banijya Bank; Nabil & Rastriya shows trivial growth where Janata fails to maintain EPS",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/see-the-q1-performance-of-nabil-janata-rastriya-banijya-bank-nabil-rastriya-shows-trivial-growth-where-janata-fails-to-maintain-eps,
2017-10-31,Nabil bank to distribute 18% cash dividend directly to bank a/c; urges physical certificate holders to dematerialize their shares,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-distribute-18-cash-dividend-directly-to-bank-accounts-urges-physical-certificate-holders-to-dematerialize-their-shares,
2017-10-25,Know what will happen to interest rate if base rate rises and declines?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/know-what-will-happen-to-interest-rate-if-base-rate-rise-and-decline,
2017-10-13,See the dividend of 71 companies announced for FY 2073/74 and FY 2072/73 under one table,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/see-the-dividend-of-71-companies-announced-for-fy-207374-and-fy-207273-under-one-table,
2017-10-11,Nabil Bank certified with ISO 9001 :2015; First Commercial Bank to be certified under ISO 9001 series,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-certified-with-iso-9001-2015-first-commercial-bank-to-be-certified-under-iso-9001-series,
2017-10-10,How worthy is your decision to Invest in Blue-chip Companies? Study shows blue-chip return exceed NEPSE return and inflation,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/how-worthy-is-your-decision-to-invest-in-blue-chip-companies-study-shows-blue-chip-return-exceed-nepse-return-and-inflation,
2017-09-26,33rd AGM of Nabil Bank today; to endorse 30% stock & 18% cash dividend,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/33rd-agm-of-nabil-bank-today-to-endorse-30-stock-18-cash-dividend,
2017-09-24,ICRA Nepal reaffirms AA- issuer rating to Nabil Bank,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/icra-nepal-reaffirms-aa-issuer-rating-to-nabil-bank,
2017-09-11,Last day to clinch 30% & 15% bonus shares of Nabil Bank & First Microfinance respectively,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/last-day-to-clinch-30-15-bonus-shares-of-nabil-bank-first-microfinance-respectively,
2017-09-06,Nabil Bank to approve 30% stock & 18% cash dividend; 33rd AGM on Ashwin 10; Book closure on Bhadra 27,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-approve-30-stock-18-cash-dividend-33rd-agm-on-ashwin-10-book-closure-on-bhadra-27,
2017-08-31,Key ratios of commercial bank with which investors must be familiar; Rastriya Banijya & Nepal Bank’s with lowest cost of funds,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/key-ratios-of-commercial-bank-with-which-investors-must-be-familiar-ratriya-banijya-nepal-banks-with-lowest-cost-of-funds,
2017-08-27,Nabil bank declares 30% stock & 18% cash dividend; Paid up capital to reach Rs 8.03 arba,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-declares-30-bonus-share-18-cash-dividend-paid-up-capital-to-reach-rs-8-03-arba,
2017-08-27,How much interest rate banks are offering on Fixed Deposits? Can we expect interest rate of loan to be down any time soon?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/how-much-interest-rate-banks-are-offering-on-fixed-deposits-can-we-expect-interest-rate-of-loan-to-be-down-any-time-soon,
2017-08-03,"Nabil Bank posts tremendous growth in Q4; Reserve surges by 47.48% to Rs 9.03 arba, EPS at Rs 58.54",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-posts-tremendous-growth-in-q4-reserve-surges-by-47-48-to-rs-9-03-arba-eps-at-rs-58-54,
2017-06-25,Know which commercial bank is cost efficient & which one is costlier (based on Q3 of FY 2073/74),https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/know-which-commercial-bank-is-cost-efficient-which-one-is-costlier-based-on-q3-of-fy-207374,
2017-05-17,Commercial banks still unable to attract deposits in accordance to their increase in profits; will increase in government expenditure help?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-still-unable-to-attract-deposits-in-accordance-to-their-increase-in-profits-will-increase-in-government-expenditure-help,
2017-05-17,See the progress of all 28 commercial banks as of third quarter as per their major indicators,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/see-the-progress-of-all-28-commercial-banks-as-of-third-quarter-as-per-their-major-indicators,
2017-05-03,Nabil Bank’s outstanding progress in Q3; 30.76% increase in net profit to Rs 2.68 arba and EPS at Rs 58,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-outstanding-progress-in-q3-30-76-in-net-profit-to-rs-2-68-arba-and-eps-at-rs-58,
2017-03-16,"Which bank will be in better position to provide more dividend after their capital reaches Rs 8 arba: SCB, NIB, NABIL or EBL?",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/which-bank-will-be-in-better-position-to-provide-more-dividend-after-their-capital-reaches-rs-8-arba-scb-nib-nabil-or-ebl,
2017-03-13,Nabil Bank urges investors to collect uncollected dividend; pending to be transferred in Investors Fund,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-urges-investors-to-collect-uncollected-dividend-pending-to-be-transferred-in-investors-fund,
2017-02-14,Nabil Bank earns Rs 1.74 arba in Q2; EPS at Rs 56.69,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-earns-rs-1-74-arba-in-q2-eps-at-rs-56-69,
2017-01-02,"NEPSE lists 2.99 crore units bonus shares of NABIL, NIB, API, Country Dev. and 1.69 lakh units right shares of Mithila Laghubitta",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nepse-lists-2-99-crore-units-bonus-shares-of-nabil-nib-api-country-dev-and-1-69-lakh-units-right-shares-of-mithila-laghubitta,
2016-12-23,See how much capital commercial banks need to increase by this fiscal year to reach NRB’s requirement (with projected EPS),https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/see-how-much-capital-commercial-banks-need-to-increase-by-this-fiscal-year-to-reach-nrbs-requirement-with-projected-eps,
2016-11-23,See which Commercial Banks are superior than Industry Average; NMB Bank leads on major Indicators,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-industry-average-q1-2073-74,
2016-11-21,"Commercial Banks’ Net Profit increases by 43.6% to Rs 9.6 Arba in Q1 of FY 2073/74, Nepal Bank leads with highest profit of Rs 1.16 Arba",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-net-increases-by-43-6-to-rs-9-6-arba-in-q1-of-fy-207374-nepal-bank-leads-with-highest-profit-of-rs-1-16-arba,
2016-11-17,Nabil Bank honored in 5th National Tax Day,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-honored-in-5th-national-tax-day,
2016-11-09,Profit of commercial banks likely to surge,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/profit-of-commercial-banks-likely-to-surge,
2016-11-09,Nabil Equity Fund refunding excess public issue money from today; applicants mentioning a/c of Nabil Bank to get refund directly in their a/c,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-equity-fund-refunding-excess-public-issue-money-from-today-applicants-mentioning-ac-of-nabil-bank-to-get-refund-directly-in-their-ac,
2016-11-07,Nabil Equity Fund to refund excess public issue money from Kartik 24; applicants mentioning a/c of Nabil Bank to get refund directly in their a/c,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-equity-fund-to-refund-excess-public-issue-money-from-kartik-24-applicants-mentioning-ac-of-nabil-bank-to-get-refund-directly-in-their-ac,
2016-10-28,Modest profit growth of Nabil Bank by 21.42% to Rs 80.60 crore in Q1; Reserve remains at Rs 6.24 arba,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/modest-profit-growth-of-nabil-bank-by-21-42-to-rs-80-60-crore-in-q1-reserve-remains-at-rs-6-24-arba,
2016-10-05,Nabil Bank to distribute 15% cash dividend warrant from today; urges shareholders to open Demat account,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-distribute-cash-dividend-warrant-from-today-urges-shareholders-to-open-demat-account,
2016-10-04,Nabil Bank to approve 30% stock & 15% cash dividend; 32nd AGM today,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-approve-30-stock-15-cash-dividend-32nd-agm-today,
2016-09-23,See which commercial banks are superiors than Industry (Exclusive Study),https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/see-which-commercial-banks-are-superiors-than-industry-exclusive-study,
2016-09-22,Nabil Bank trading resumes from today after clarification on book closure notice,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-trading-resumes-from-today-after-clarification-on-book-closure-notice,
2016-09-22,"Last day to grab public issue worth Rs 1 arba of Nabil Equity Fund; collected Rs 2.70 arba from 17,000 applicant till third day ;oversubscribed by 2.7 times",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/last-day-to-grab-public-issue-worth-rs-1-arba-of-nabil-equity-fund-collected-rs-2-70-arba-from-17000-applicant-till-third-day-oversubscribed-by-2-7-times,
2016-09-21,Nabil Bank trading suspended in NEPSE,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-trading-suspended-in-nepse,
2016-09-20,Last day to secure 30% & 15% stock dividend of Nabil Bank & First Microfinance respectively,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/last-day-to-secure-30-15-stock-dividend-of-nabil-bank-first-microfinance-respectively,
2016-09-18,Know the companies that have announced dividend from the profit of FY 72/73,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/know-the-companies-that-have-announced-dividend-from-the-profit-of-fy-7273,
2016-09-18,Nabil Equity Fund floating public issue worth Rs 1 arba from today; Investors can apply up to 1 crore unit shares,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-equity-fund-floating-public-issue-worth-rs-1-arba-from-today-investors-can-apply-up-to-1-crore-unit-shares,
2016-09-16,NRB to bring $10m in cash from Singapore,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nrb-to-bring-10m-in-cash-from-singapore,
2016-09-13,Nabil Bank to approve 30% stock & 15% cash dividend; 32nd AGM on Ashwin 18,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-approve-30-stock-15-cash-dividend-32nd-agm-on-ashwin-18,
2016-09-09,Nabil Mutual Fund to operate Nabil Equity Fund,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-mutual-fund-to-operate-nabil-equity-fund,
2016-09-08,Nabil Equity Fund to float public issue worth Rs 1 arba from Ashwin 2; Investors can apply up to 1 crore unit shares,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-equity-fund-to-float-public-issue-worth-rs-1-arba-from-ashwin-2-investors-can-apply-up-to-1-crore-unit-shares,
2016-09-02,Prohibitory period fixed for central bank staff,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/prohibitory-period-fixed-for-central-bank-staff,
2016-08-12,Nabil Bank profit surges by 34.67% in Q4; reserve increased to Rs 7.59 arba,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-profit-up-surges-by-34-67-in-q4-reserve-increased-to-rs-7-59-arba,
2016-07-14,Nabil Bank celebrates its 32nd anniversary with differently abled children at CVDS-Nepal,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-celebrates-its-32nd-anniversary-with-differently-abled-children-at-cvds-nepal,
2016-07-13,"Comparative study of Nabil, Everest & Standard Chartered Bank",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/comparative-study-of-nabil-everest-standard-chartered-bank,
2016-07-01,Bankers revive call for scrapping interest spread cap,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/bankers-revive-call-for-scrapping-interest-spread-cap,
2016-06-21,Nabil Bank supports visually impaired students,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-supports-visually-impaired-students,
2016-06-14,"BAFIA amendment to allow foreign promoters of Nabil Bank, NMB Bank to retain stakes",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/bafia-amendment-to-allow-foreign-promoters-of-nabil-bank-nmb-bank-to-retain-stakes,
2016-05-14,Commercial Banks earns Rs 21.69 billion in Q3; Nabil Bank has highest net profit,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-earns-rs-21-69-billion-in-q3-nabil-bank-has-highest-net-profit,
2016-05-06,ICRA Nepal gives ‘high credit quality’ issuer rating to NABIL Bank; one of the highest credit ratings assigned to any company in Nepal till date,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/icra-nepal-gives-high-credit-quality-issuer-rating-to-nabil-bank,
2016-05-02,Nabil Bank profit surges by 26.47% to Rs 2.06 arba in Q3; EPS at Rs 58.58,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-profit-surges-by-26-47-to-rs-2-06-arba-in-q3-eps-at-rs-57-99,
2016-04-26,NIDC Dev. Bank opens bid for 1.62 lakh unit promoter shares of Nabil Bank today; preliminary cut off price stood Rs 1631,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nidc-dev-bank-opens-bid-for-1-62-lakh-unit-promoter-shares-of-nabil-bank-preliminary-cut-off-price-stood-rs-1631,
2016-04-21,"Nabil Bank launches Mobile SmartBank, Share Loan & Share Khata product",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-launches-nabil-mobile-smartbank-nabil-share-loan-and-share-khata-product,
2016-04-18,Gold piles up in banks as market depends on smuggled gold,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/gold-piles-up-in-banks-as-market-depends-on-smuggled-gold,
2016-04-17,Technical analysis of nabil bank,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/technical-analysis-of-nabil-bank-by-mikesh-karki,
2016-04-01,Where can investors pour their money?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/where-can-investors-pour-their-money,
2016-02-17,1.78 crore units bonus & right shares of four companies listed in Nepse,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/1-78-crore-units-bonus-right-shares-of-four-companies-listed-in-nepse,
2016-02-07,Nabil Bank registers a profit growth of 21.54% to Rs 1.36 arba in Q2,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-registers-a-profit-growth-of-21-54-to-rs-1-36-arba-in-q2,
2016-02-07,Nabil Bank to distribute 30% bonus share certificate from today,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-distribute-30-bonus-share-certificate-from-today,
2016-01-11,Bill bars NRB guv from joining BFIs after retiring,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/bill-bars-nrb-guv-from-joining-bfis-after-retiring,
2015-12-29,Nabil Bank to distribute 6.84% cash dividend warrant from today,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-distribute-cash-dividend-warrant-from-today,
2015-12-28,Nabil Bank 31st AGM today; To approve 30% stock & 6.84% cash dividend,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-31st-agm-today-to-approve-30-stock-6-84-cash-dividend,
2015-12-09,NRB approves stock & cash dividends of Everest & Nabil Bank,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nrb-approves-stock-cash-dividends-of-everest-nabil-bank,
2015-12-03,Nabil announces sponsorship for girls' education,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-announces-sponsorship-for-girls-education,
2015-12-03,Hurry up: Last day to clinch 30% stock & 6.84% cash dividend of Nabil Bank,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/hurry-up-last-day-to-clinch-30-stock-6-84-cash-dividend-of-nabil-bank,
2015-12-01,Commercial Banks' Q1 Analysis: Part 1 Capital and Reserves,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-q1-analysis-part-1-capital-and-reserves,
2015-11-27,Nabil Bank 31st AGM on Poush 13; to endorse 30% bonus share & 6.84% cash dividend,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-31st-agm-on-poush-13-to-endorse-30-bonus-share-6-84-cash-dividend,
2015-11-18,FinMin vows to implement reforms in tax system,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/finmin-vows-to-implement-reforms-in-tax-system,
2015-11-08,Relaxation of regulation surges profit of Nabil Bank; Nabil bank uses double standard in calculations of Q1 report,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/relaxation-of-regulation-surges-profit-of-nabil-bank-nabil-bank-uses-double-standard-in-calculations-of-q1-report,
2015-11-06,"Nabil Bank Q1 earning surges to Rs 66.38 crore, rise by 30.03%",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-reports-profit-rise-by-30-03-in-q1,
2015-10-18,6% cash dividend from Everest & NABIL; Will the NRB stand up against big banks?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/6-xx-cash-dividend-from-everest-nabil-will-the-nrb-stand-up-against-big-banks,
2015-10-08,Notice from NRB causes ADBL to hit circuit; NRB bars BFIs to include Preference shares in capital plan,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/notice-from-nrb-causes-adbl-to-hit-circuit-nrb-bars-bfis-to-include-preference-shares-in-capital-plan,
2015-10-08,NRB disallows preference shares in capital plan; Nabil & ADBL needs extra Rs 2 arba & Rs 4.58 arba respectively to reach Rs 8 arba,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nrb-disallows-preference-shares-in-capital-plan-nabil-adbl-needs-rs-2-arba-rs-6-47-arba-respectively-to-reach-rs-8-arba,
2015-10-05,Will NRB endorse 6.84 % Cash Dividend of NABIL bank ?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/will-nrb-endorse-6-84-cash-dividend-of-nabil-bank,
2015-10-05,Capital Plan: Nabil to issue Irredeemable Preference Share worth Rs 2 arba,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/capital-plan-nabil-to-issue-irredeemable-preference-share-worth-rs-2-arba,
2015-10-04,Nabil bank declares 30% bonus share & 6.84% cash dividend; Paid up will rise to 4.75 arba,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-declares-30-bonus-share-6-84-cash-dividend-paid-up-will-rise-to-4-75-arba,
2015-08-28,Appointment of Independent Director in Nabil Bank Ltd.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/appointment-of-independent-director-in-nabil-bank-ltd,
2015-08-28,Appointment of Director in Nabil Bank Ltd.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/appointment-of-director-in-nabil-bank-ltd,
2015-08-25,Commercial Banks' Status on the Basis of Reserves (Q4 Exclusive Study),https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/commercial-banks-status-on-the-basis-of-reserves-q4-exclusive-study,
2015-08-21,"If you’re a value-oriented investor, here is the  list of Dependable Dividend Stocks",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/if-youre-a-value-oriented-investor-here-is-the-list-of-dependable-dividend-stocks,
2015-08-13,Huge Deposits & Low credit expansion led 9.8% decline in Nabil's Q4 profit (Exclusive Study),https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/huge-deposits-low-credit-expansion-led-9-8-decline-in-nabils-q4-profit-exclusive-study,
2015-07-28,Nabil wins 'BPA Award' for 6th straight year,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-wins-bpa-award-for-6th-straight-year,
2015-07-26,Technical Call: Nabil Bank Ltd.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/technical-call-nabil-bank-ltd-2,"ShareSansar, July 26:

Nabil Bank Ltd.


Buy: Rs. 2,010
Stop Loss: Rs.1,875
Take Profit: Rs.2,400
Current Market Price: Rs.2,010


 
 
 
Sagun Shakya
Jeevan Shrestha
-Technical Analyst-
 
 
 
 
Disclamer:
Opinions expressed are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily represent the opinion of sharesansar.com This commentary is a guideline to interpreting the specified indicators. This information should only be used by investors who are aware of the risk inherent in securities trading. IMS Investment Management Services Pvt. Ltd accepts no liability whatsoever for any loss arising from any use of this contents. ShareSansar, July 26:

Nabil Bank Ltd.


Buy: Rs. 2,010
Stop Loss: Rs.1,875
Take Profit: Rs.2,400
Current Market Price: Rs.2,010


 
 
 
Sagun Shakya
Jeevan Shrestha
-Technical Analyst-
 
 
 
 
Disclamer:
Opinions expressed are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily represent the opinion of sharesansar.com This commentary is a guideline to interpreting the specified indicators. This information should only be used by investors who are aware of the risk inherent in securities trading. IMS Investment Management Services Pvt. Ltd accepts no liability whatsoever for any loss arising from any use of this contents. ShareSansar, July 26:

Nabil Bank Ltd.


Buy: Rs. 2,010
Stop Loss: Rs.1,875
Take Profit: Rs.2,400
Current Market Price: Rs.2,010


 
 
 
Sagun Shakya
Jeevan Shrestha
-Technical Analyst-
 
 
 
 
Disclamer:
Opinions expressed are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily represent the opinion of sharesansar.com This commentary is a guideline to interpreting the specified indicators. This information should only be used by investors who are aware of the risk inherent in securities trading. IMS Investment Management Services Pvt. Ltd accepts no liability whatsoever for any loss arising from any use of this contents. "
2015-07-12,Nabil Bank suppports orphanage,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-suppports-orphanage,
2015-06-29,Appointment of CEO in Nabil Bank Ltd.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/appointment-of-ceo-in-nabil-bank-ltd,
2015-06-29,Eminent banker Mr. Sashin Joshi appointed as CEO of Nabil bank,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/eminent-banker-mr-sashin-joshi-appointed-as-ceo-of-nabil-bank,
2015-06-12,Nabil Bank provides Rs 20 million to PM Fund,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-provides-rs-20-million-to-pm-fund,
2015-06-10,Nabil Bank staffers support quake victims,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-staffers-support-quake-victims,
2015-05-24,Appointment of Chairman in Nabil Bank Ltd.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/appointment-of-chairman-in-nabil-bank-ltd,
2015-05-08,Nabil Bank Q3 profit declined by 0.37% to Rs 1.63 arba,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-q3-profit-declined-by-0-37-to-rs-1-63-arba,
2015-04-15,Resignation of Director in Nabil Bank Ltd.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/resignation-of-director-in-nabil-bank-ltd,
2015-04-15,Appointment of Company Secretary in Nabil Bank Limited.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/appointment-of-company-secretary-in-nabil-bank-limited,
2015-04-12,"Nabil Bank Limited has listed its 61,04,856 units Bonus Shares in NEPSE for trading.",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-listed-its-6104856-units-bonus-shares-in-nepse-for-trading,
2015-03-20,Nabil Bank is distributing 20% Bonus Share Certificate from Chaitra 8.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-is-distributing-20-bonus-share-certificate-from-chaitra-8,
2015-02-03,Nabil Bank’s profit surges to Rs 1.12 billion in Q2; maintain top position,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-profit-surges-to-rs-1-12-billion-in-q2-maintain-top-position,
2014-12-03,Nabil Bank’s starts distributing 45% cash dividend warrants from today,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-starts-distributing-45-cash-dividend-warrants-from-today,
2014-12-02,Nabil Bank to hold its 30th AGM today; 65% dividend to be approved,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-to-hold-its-30th-agm-today-65-dividend-to-be-approved,
2014-11-12,STOCK WATCH: Last day to clinch 20% bonus and 45% cash Dividend of Nabil Bank Ltd.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/stock-watch-last-day-to-clinch-20-bonus-and-45-cash-dividend-of-nabil-bank-ltd,
2014-11-07,"Nabil Bank’s profit surges to Rs 51 crore, Global IME earns Rs.22.39 crore in Q1",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-profit-surges-to-rs-51-crore-global-ime-earns-rs-22-39-crore-in-q1,
2014-11-06,Nabil's AGM on Mangsir 16; investors holding till Kartik 26 to get 65% dividend,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabils-agm-on-mangsir-16-investors-holding-till-kartik-26-to-get-65-dividend,
2014-10-17,Why the price gap between Nabil ordinary and promoter shares?,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/why-the-price-gap-between-nabil-ordinary-and-promoter-shares,
2014-08-14,"Nabil Bank’s profit surges by Rs 10.09 crore, writes back Rs 1.47 crore",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-profit-surges-by-rs-10-09-crore-writes-back-rs-1-47-crore,
2014-07-27,Nabil supports Self Help Group for Cerebral Palsy,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-supports-self-help-group-for-cerebral-palsy,
2014-07-22,Nabil bags 'Best Presented Accounts Award',https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bags-best-presented-accounts-award,
2014-07-13,Nabil Bank turns 30,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-turns-30,
2014-07-04,Nabil Bank assists SBSP,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-assists-sbsp,
2014-07-03,Nabil provides help,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-provides-help,
2014-06-16,Nabil bags award,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bags-award,
2014-06-09,Nabil introduces 'NABIL SMARTCARDS',https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-introduces-nabil-smartcards,
2014-05-18,Finally Nabil Bank’s bonus shares worth above Rs 10 billion get listed in NEPSE for trading,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/finally-nabil-banks-bonus-shares-worth-above-rs-10-billion-get-listed-in-nepse-for-trading,
2014-05-14,Nabil adds two ATMs,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-adds-two-atms,
2014-05-02,Nabil reports net profit rise of 6 % in Q3 largely due to write back of Rs 28 crore,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-reports-net-profit-rise-of-6-in-q3-largely-due-to-write-back-of-rs-28-crore,
2014-04-25,"What is delaying listing of bonus shares of Nabil, Standard Chartered and more?",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/what-is-delaying-listing-of-bonus-shares-of-nabil-standard-chartered-and-more,
2014-03-03,Nabil starts distributing bonus share certificates,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-starts-distributing-bonus-share-certificates,
2014-02-12,Cheap loans will hurt the economy,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/cheap-loans-will-hurt-the-economy,
2014-02-03,"Owing to provisioning worth Rs 49 crore, Nabil reports a profit drop of 4.5 % in Q2",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/owing-to-provisioning-worth-rs-49-crore-nabil-reports-a-profit-drop-of-4-5-in-q2,
2014-01-21,NRB blocks dividend of Nabil to NB International after CIAA launches probe into major shareholder,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nrb-blocks-dividend-of-nabil-to-nb-international-after-ciaa-launches-probe-into-major-shareholder,
2013-12-29,Nabil distributing cash dividend warrants from today,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-distributing-cash-dividend-warrants-from-today,
2013-12-27,Nabil Bank AGM today to soar up capital base; 65% dividend confirmed,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-agm-today-to-soar-up-capital-base-65-dividend-confirmed,
2013-12-11,Armed gang robs Rs 23 m from Nabil bank vehicle,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/armed-gang-robs-rs-23-m-from-nabil-bank-vehicle,
2013-12-01,"Nabil offers 65% dividend, AGM on Dec 27",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-offers-65-dividend-agm-on-dec-27,
2013-11-11,Nabil’s net profit dips by 20% in first quarter,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabils-net-profit-dips-by-20-in-first-quarter,
2013-11-11,Nabil Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs. 457.89 million and published its 1st quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2070/71.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-457-89-million-and-published-its-1st-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-207071,
2013-10-23,Nabil Bank account can now be opened online,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-account-can-now-be-opened-online,
2013-10-02,Nabil Bank's online account opening facility,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-banks-online-account-opening-facility,
2013-09-08,Nabil Bank Limited has decided to distribute 25% bonus shares and 40% cash dividend and is subjected to approval from NRB and its upcoming AGM.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-decided-to-distribute-25-bonus-shares-and-40-cash-dividend-and-is-subjected-to-approval-from-nrb-and-its-upcoming-agm,
2013-09-07,"Nabil resistance at 1,925",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-resistance-at-1925,
2013-09-06,"Nabil offers 40 pc cash dividend, 25 pc bonus share",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-offers-40-pc-cash-dividend-25-pc-bonus-share,
2013-08-08,"Nabil Bank profit increases 31.24%, settled at Rs 2.23 arba, highest ever of any commercial bank",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-profit-increases-31-24-settled-at-rs-2-23-arba-highest-ever-of-any-commercial-bank,
2013-08-08,Nabil Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.2231.57 million and published its 4th quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2069/70.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-2231-57-million-and-published-its-4th-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206970,
2013-07-19,Nabil Bank supports ICIMOD’s Knowledge Park,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-supports-icimods-knowledge-park,
2013-05-29,Nabil Bank CSR for police,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-csr-for-police,
2013-05-06,Nabil Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.1544.11 million and published its 3rd quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2069/70.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-1544-11-million-and-published-its-3rd-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206970,
2013-05-02,Nabil celebrates May 1,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-celebrates-may-1,
2013-02-12,Nabil Bank Limited has posted a net profit of Rs 1116.52 million and published its 2nd quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2069/70.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-a-net-profit-of-rs-1116-52-million-and-published-its-2nd-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206970,
2013-01-14,"Nabil Bank Limited has listed its 40,70,720 units Bonus share in Nepse for trading.",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-listed-its-4070720-units-bonus-share-in-nepse-for-trading,
2012-12-12,Nabil Bank Limited has published its audited financial report of the fiscal year 2068/69.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-published-its-audited-financial-report-of-the-fiscal-year-206869,
2012-11-27,"Nabil Bank Limited is going to distribute 20% Bonus Share Certificate to its shareholders from today (12th Mangsir, 2069).",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-is-going-to-distribute-20-bonus-share-certificate-to-its-shareholders-from-today-12th-mangsir-2069,
2012-11-26,Nabil eSecure card service launched,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-esecure-card-service-launched,
2012-11-07,Nabil Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.591.43 million and published its 1st quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2069/70.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-591-43-million-and-published-its-1st-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206970,
2012-11-02,Nabil felicitates Dinesh Pant,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-felicitates-dinesh-pant,
2012-10-31,"Nabil Bank Limited is going to distribute 40% Cash Dividend warrant to its shareholders from today, 15th Kartik, 2069.",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-is-going-to-distribute-40-cash-dividend-warrant-to-its-shareholders-from-today-15th-kartik-2069,
2012-10-18,Nabil to give 60% dividend,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-to-give-60-dividend,
2012-09-26,Nabil Bank Limited has announced its 28th Annual General Meeting going to be held on 1st Kartik 2069.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-announced-its-28th-annual-general-meeting-going-to-be-held-on-1st-kartik-2069,
2012-09-23,Nabil Bank Limited has appointed Nabil Investment Banking Limited as its share registrar effective from 7th Ashwin 2069.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-appointed-nabil-investment-banking-limited-as-its-share-registrar-effective-from-7th-ashwin-2069,
2012-09-17,"Nabil, NB Group going tit-for-tat",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-nb-group-going-tit-for-tat,
2012-09-13,Nabil Bank chairman Shrestha blacklisted,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-chairman-shrestha-blacklisted,
2012-08-13,Nabil Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs 1722.11 million and published its 4th quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2068/69.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-1722-11-million-and-published-its-4th-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206869,
2012-04-26,"Nabil Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs. 1,135  million and published its third quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2068/69.",https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-1135-million-and-published-its-third-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206869,
2012-02-13,Nabil Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.660.90 million and published its second quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2068/69.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-660-90-million-and-published-its-second-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206869,
2012-02-05,Nabil Mutual Fund in offing,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-mutual-fund-in-offing,
2011-12-21,Nabil Bank Limited is distributing 30 percent cash dividend to its shareholders starting from today (6th Poush 2068).,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-is-distributing-30-percent-cash-dividend-to-its-shareholders-starting-from-today-6th-poush-2068,
2011-12-10,Nabil cash dividend,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-cash-dividend,
2011-12-02,Nabil Bank Limited has announced its cancelled 27th AGM of 5th Mangsir 2068 to be again held on 23rd Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-announced-its-cancelled-27th-agm-of-5th-mangsir-2068-to-be-again-held-on-23rd-mangsir-2068,
2011-11-25,NABIL Bank Limited has published a notice regarding cancellation of its 27th AGM held on 5th Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-published-a-notice-regarding-cancellation-of-its-27th-agm-held-on-5th-mangsir-2068,
2011-11-14,NABIL Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.305.32 million and published its first quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2068/69.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-305-32-million-and-published-its-first-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206869,
2011-10-24,Nabil Bank Limited has announced its 27th Annual General Meeting going to be held on 5th Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-announced-its-27th-annual-general-meeting-going-to-be-held-on-5th-mangsir-2068,
2011-09-17,Nabil bank denies role,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-denies-role,
2011-08-26,BOD of NABIL Bank Limited has proposed to distribute 30 percent cash dividend to its shareholders subject to approval from NRB and upcoming AGM.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/bod-of-nabil-bank-limited-has-proposed-to-distribute-30-percent-cash-dividend-to-its-shareholders-subject-to-approval-from-nrb-and-upcoming-agm,
2011-08-17,Nabil Investment Banking Limited has announced its 2nd annual general meeting going to be held on 21st Bhadra 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-investment-banking-limited-has-announced-its-2nd-annual-general-meeting-going-to-be-held-on-21st-bhadra-2068,
2011-08-15,NABIL Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.1300.11 million and published its fourth quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2067/68.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-1300-11-million-and-published-its-fourth-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206768,
2011-07-14,Nabil Bank applies to operate Mutual Fund,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-applies-to-operate-mutual-fund,
2011-05-12,Nabil Bank Limited has posted a net profit of Rs 951.7 million and published its 3rd quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2067/68.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-a-net-profit-of-rs-951-7-million-and-published-its-3rd-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206768,
2011-12-02,Nabil Bank Limited has announced its cancelled 27th AGM of 5th Mangsir 2068 to be again held on 23rd Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-announced-its-cancelled-27th-agm-of-5th-mangsir-2068-to-be-again-held-on-23rd-mangsir-2068,
2011-11-25,NABIL Bank Limited has published a notice regarding cancellation of its 27th AGM held on 5th Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-published-a-notice-regarding-cancellation-of-its-27th-agm-held-on-5th-mangsir-2068,
2011-11-14,NABIL Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.305.32 million and published its first quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2068/69.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-305-32-million-and-published-its-first-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206869,
2011-10-24,Nabil Bank Limited has announced its 27th Annual General Meeting going to be held on 5th Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-announced-its-27th-annual-general-meeting-going-to-be-held-on-5th-mangsir-2068,
2011-09-17,Nabil bank denies role,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-denies-role,
2011-08-26,BOD of NABIL Bank Limited has proposed to distribute 30 percent cash dividend to its shareholders subject to approval from NRB and upcoming AGM.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/bod-of-nabil-bank-limited-has-proposed-to-distribute-30-percent-cash-dividend-to-its-shareholders-subject-to-approval-from-nrb-and-upcoming-agm,
2011-08-17,Nabil Investment Banking Limited has announced its 2nd annual general meeting going to be held on 21st Bhadra 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-investment-banking-limited-has-announced-its-2nd-annual-general-meeting-going-to-be-held-on-21st-bhadra-2068,
2011-08-15,NABIL Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.1300.11 million and published its fourth quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2067/68.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-1300-11-million-and-published-its-fourth-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206768,
2011-07-14,Nabil Bank applies to operate Mutual Fund,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-applies-to-operate-mutual-fund,
2011-05-12,Nabil Bank Limited has posted a net profit of Rs 951.7 million and published its 3rd quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2067/68.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-a-net-profit-of-rs-951-7-million-and-published-its-3rd-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206768,
2011-12-02,Nabil Bank Limited has announced its cancelled 27th AGM of 5th Mangsir 2068 to be again held on 23rd Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-announced-its-cancelled-27th-agm-of-5th-mangsir-2068-to-be-again-held-on-23rd-mangsir-2068,
2011-11-25,NABIL Bank Limited has published a notice regarding cancellation of its 27th AGM held on 5th Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-published-a-notice-regarding-cancellation-of-its-27th-agm-held-on-5th-mangsir-2068,
2011-11-14,NABIL Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.305.32 million and published its first quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2068/69.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-305-32-million-and-published-its-first-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206869,
2011-10-24,Nabil Bank Limited has announced its 27th Annual General Meeting going to be held on 5th Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-announced-its-27th-annual-general-meeting-going-to-be-held-on-5th-mangsir-2068,
2011-09-17,Nabil bank denies role,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-denies-role,
2011-08-26,BOD of NABIL Bank Limited has proposed to distribute 30 percent cash dividend to its shareholders subject to approval from NRB and upcoming AGM.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/bod-of-nabil-bank-limited-has-proposed-to-distribute-30-percent-cash-dividend-to-its-shareholders-subject-to-approval-from-nrb-and-upcoming-agm,
2011-08-17,Nabil Investment Banking Limited has announced its 2nd annual general meeting going to be held on 21st Bhadra 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-investment-banking-limited-has-announced-its-2nd-annual-general-meeting-going-to-be-held-on-21st-bhadra-2068,
2011-08-15,NABIL Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.1300.11 million and published its fourth quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2067/68.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-1300-11-million-and-published-its-fourth-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206768,
2011-07-14,Nabil Bank applies to operate Mutual Fund,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-applies-to-operate-mutual-fund,
2011-05-12,Nabil Bank Limited has posted a net profit of Rs 951.7 million and published its 3rd quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2067/68.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-a-net-profit-of-rs-951-7-million-and-published-its-3rd-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206768,
2011-12-02,Nabil Bank Limited has announced its cancelled 27th AGM of 5th Mangsir 2068 to be again held on 23rd Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-announced-its-cancelled-27th-agm-of-5th-mangsir-2068-to-be-again-held-on-23rd-mangsir-2068,
2011-11-25,NABIL Bank Limited has published a notice regarding cancellation of its 27th AGM held on 5th Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-published-a-notice-regarding-cancellation-of-its-27th-agm-held-on-5th-mangsir-2068,
2011-11-14,NABIL Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.305.32 million and published its first quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2068/69.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-305-32-million-and-published-its-first-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206869,
2011-10-24,Nabil Bank Limited has announced its 27th Annual General Meeting going to be held on 5th Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-announced-its-27th-annual-general-meeting-going-to-be-held-on-5th-mangsir-2068,
2011-09-17,Nabil bank denies role,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-denies-role,
2011-08-26,BOD of NABIL Bank Limited has proposed to distribute 30 percent cash dividend to its shareholders subject to approval from NRB and upcoming AGM.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/bod-of-nabil-bank-limited-has-proposed-to-distribute-30-percent-cash-dividend-to-its-shareholders-subject-to-approval-from-nrb-and-upcoming-agm,
2011-08-17,Nabil Investment Banking Limited has announced its 2nd annual general meeting going to be held on 21st Bhadra 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-investment-banking-limited-has-announced-its-2nd-annual-general-meeting-going-to-be-held-on-21st-bhadra-2068,
2011-08-15,NABIL Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.1300.11 million and published its fourth quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2067/68.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-1300-11-million-and-published-its-fourth-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206768,
2011-07-14,Nabil Bank applies to operate Mutual Fund,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-applies-to-operate-mutual-fund,
2011-05-12,Nabil Bank Limited has posted a net profit of Rs 951.7 million and published its 3rd quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2067/68.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-a-net-profit-of-rs-951-7-million-and-published-its-3rd-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206768,
2011-12-02,Nabil Bank Limited has announced its cancelled 27th AGM of 5th Mangsir 2068 to be again held on 23rd Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-announced-its-cancelled-27th-agm-of-5th-mangsir-2068-to-be-again-held-on-23rd-mangsir-2068,
2011-11-25,NABIL Bank Limited has published a notice regarding cancellation of its 27th AGM held on 5th Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-published-a-notice-regarding-cancellation-of-its-27th-agm-held-on-5th-mangsir-2068,
2011-11-14,NABIL Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.305.32 million and published its first quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2068/69.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-305-32-million-and-published-its-first-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206869,
2011-10-24,Nabil Bank Limited has announced its 27th Annual General Meeting going to be held on 5th Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-announced-its-27th-annual-general-meeting-going-to-be-held-on-5th-mangsir-2068,
2011-09-17,Nabil bank denies role,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-denies-role,
2011-08-26,BOD of NABIL Bank Limited has proposed to distribute 30 percent cash dividend to its shareholders subject to approval from NRB and upcoming AGM.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/bod-of-nabil-bank-limited-has-proposed-to-distribute-30-percent-cash-dividend-to-its-shareholders-subject-to-approval-from-nrb-and-upcoming-agm,
2011-08-17,Nabil Investment Banking Limited has announced its 2nd annual general meeting going to be held on 21st Bhadra 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-investment-banking-limited-has-announced-its-2nd-annual-general-meeting-going-to-be-held-on-21st-bhadra-2068,
2011-08-15,NABIL Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.1300.11 million and published its fourth quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2067/68.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-1300-11-million-and-published-its-fourth-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206768,
2011-07-14,Nabil Bank applies to operate Mutual Fund,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-applies-to-operate-mutual-fund,
2011-05-12,Nabil Bank Limited has posted a net profit of Rs 951.7 million and published its 3rd quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2067/68.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-a-net-profit-of-rs-951-7-million-and-published-its-3rd-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206768,
2011-12-02,Nabil Bank Limited has announced its cancelled 27th AGM of 5th Mangsir 2068 to be again held on 23rd Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-announced-its-cancelled-27th-agm-of-5th-mangsir-2068-to-be-again-held-on-23rd-mangsir-2068,
2011-11-25,NABIL Bank Limited has published a notice regarding cancellation of its 27th AGM held on 5th Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-published-a-notice-regarding-cancellation-of-its-27th-agm-held-on-5th-mangsir-2068,
2011-11-14,NABIL Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.305.32 million and published its first quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2068/69.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-305-32-million-and-published-its-first-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206869,
2011-10-24,Nabil Bank Limited has announced its 27th Annual General Meeting going to be held on 5th Mangsir 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-announced-its-27th-annual-general-meeting-going-to-be-held-on-5th-mangsir-2068,
2011-09-17,Nabil bank denies role,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-denies-role,
2011-08-26,BOD of NABIL Bank Limited has proposed to distribute 30 percent cash dividend to its shareholders subject to approval from NRB and upcoming AGM.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/bod-of-nabil-bank-limited-has-proposed-to-distribute-30-percent-cash-dividend-to-its-shareholders-subject-to-approval-from-nrb-and-upcoming-agm,
2011-08-17,Nabil Investment Banking Limited has announced its 2nd annual general meeting going to be held on 21st Bhadra 2068.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-investment-banking-limited-has-announced-its-2nd-annual-general-meeting-going-to-be-held-on-21st-bhadra-2068,
2011-08-15,NABIL Bank Limited has posted net profit of Rs.1300.11 million and published its fourth quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2067/68.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-net-profit-of-rs-1300-11-million-and-published-its-fourth-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206768,
2011-07-14,Nabil Bank applies to operate Mutual Fund,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-applies-to-operate-mutual-fund,
2011-05-12,Nabil Bank Limited has posted a net profit of Rs 951.7 million and published its 3rd quarter company analysis of the fiscal year 2067/68.,https://www.sharesansar.com/newsdetail/nabil-bank-limited-has-posted-a-net-profit-of-rs-951-7-million-and-published-its-3rd-quarter-company-analysis-of-the-fiscal-year-206768,
